[(SentH[text=The meeting was originally planned to take place at Vance’s DC home and was also supposed to include White House chief of staff Susie Wiles and Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche, CNN previously reported.], SentH[text=A much-anticipated meeting between Attorney General Pam Bondi, FBI Director Kash Patel, Vice President JD Vance and others was moved from Vance’s residence to the White House Wednesday night after intense media coverage, a source familiar with the logistics told CNN. They discussed a number of topics, including the Jeffrey Epstein case and potential next steps, the source said. The meeting was originally planned to take place at Vance’s DC home and was also supposed to include White House chief of staff Susie Wiles and Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche, CNN previously reported. The administration’s handling of the Epstein case, as well as the need to craft a unified response, was expected to be a main focus of the dinner. Trump administration officials are weighing whether to publish an audio recording and transcript of Blanche’s recent conversation with Epstein accomplice Ghislaine Maxwell, CNN previously reported.]), (SentH[text=Vance had tried to play peacemaker between Bondi, Patel and Bongino previously.], SentH[text=Trump administration officials are weighing whether to publish an audio recording and transcript of Blanche’s recent conversation with Epstein accomplice Ghislaine Maxwell, CNN previously reported. The meeting was also seen as a potential chance for Bondi and Patel — who have clashed over the Epstein case strategy, including in a contentious meeting with Wiles and Deputy FBI Director Dan Bongino — to clear the air. Vance had tried to play peacemaker between Bondi, Patel and Bongino previously. Vance and his office denied on Wednesday that a meeting on Epstein was taking place. This story has been updated with additional background.]), (SentH[text=“And I feel pain in my heart for myself and all for the other other victims everywhere,” she said.], SentH[text=Why the DOJ met with Ghislaine Maxwell amid backlash over Trump’s Epstein ties She also decried the idea of a pardon for Maxwell, and said seeing the Epstein case constantly in the news is so upsetting it brings her to tears. “Jeffrey is in my brain and I see him again and again, and I remember what he did to me in that hotel room,” Arden said. “And I feel pain in my heart for myself and all for the other other victims everywhere,” she said. Stand up for truly independent, trusted news that you can count on!]), (SentH[text=But I mean, I would like to know what the U.S. Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche asked and what she actually said to him,” Arden said.], SentH[text=Arden also addressed the question of whether Maxwell should testify before lawmakers in Congress, and the recent meeting between Maxwell and Todd Blanche, a top attorney at the Department of Justice. “I’m really not sure if we can even believe her. But I mean, I would like to know what the U.S. Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche asked and what she actually said to him,” Arden said. Why the DOJ met with Ghislaine Maxwell amid backlash over Trump’s Epstein ties She also decried the idea of a pardon for Maxwell, and said seeing the Epstein case constantly in the news is so upsetting it brings her to tears. “Jeffrey is in my brain and I see him again and again, and I remember what he did to me in that hotel room,” Arden said.]), (SentH[text=“I believe, yes, the files should be released,” Arden said.], SentH[text=Trump says he ended friendship with Epstein because he ‘stole people that worked for me’ Allred said if Epstein was charged when Arden filed the police report in 1997, “perhaps many other women and children could have been spared from the sexual abuse and sex trafficking that many were forced to suffer.” Arden also weighed in on the Epstein case. “I believe, yes, the files should be released,” Arden said. “I’m tired of the government saying that they want to release them. Arden also addressed the question of whether Maxwell should testify before lawmakers in Congress, and the recent meeting between Maxwell and Todd Blanche, a top attorney at the Department of Justice.]), (SentH[text=Trump says he ended friendship with Epstein because he ‘stole people that worked for me’ Allred said if Epstein was charged when Arden filed the police report in 1997, “perhaps many other women and children could have been spared from the sexual abuse and sex trafficking that many were forced to suffer.”], SentH[text=Alicia Arden appeared with her attorney, Gloria Allred, in Los Angeles Wednesday. Allred described their encounter, saying Epstein posed as a representative of Victoria’s Secret and said he was “interviewing and auditioning models” to appear in the company’s catalogue. Trump says he ended friendship with Epstein because he ‘stole people that worked for me’ Allred said if Epstein was charged when Arden filed the police report in 1997, “perhaps many other women and children could have been spared from the sexual abuse and sex trafficking that many were forced to suffer.” Arden also weighed in on the Epstein case. “I believe, yes, the files should be released,” Arden said.]), (SentH[text=Epstein accuser urges U.S. government to release investigation files Nation Aug 6, 2025 7:27 PM EDT A woman who says she filed a police report against Jeffrey Epstein in the late 1990s, after he allegedly committed sexual battery against her in a Santa Monica, California hotel room, called on the Trump administration to release the Epstein files.], SentH[text=By — Associated Press Associated Press Leave your feedback Share Copy URL Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Tumblr Share on Facebook Share on Twitter WATCH: Epstein accuser urges U.S. government to release investigation files Nation Aug 6, 2025 7:27 PM EDT A woman who says she filed a police report against Jeffrey Epstein in the late 1990s, after he allegedly committed sexual battery against her in a Santa Monica, California hotel room, called on the Trump administration to release the Epstein files. Watch the press conference in the player above. Alicia Arden appeared with her attorney, Gloria Allred, in Los Angeles Wednesday.]), (SentH[text=Donate now By — Associated Press Associated Press], SentH[text=“And I feel pain in my heart for myself and all for the other other victims everywhere,” she said. Stand up for truly independent, trusted news that you can count on! Donate now By — Associated Press Associated Press A woman who says she filed a police report against Jeffrey Epstein in the late 1990s, after he allegedly committed sexual battery against her in a Santa Monica, California hotel room, called on the Trump administration to release the Epstein files. Watch the press conference in the player above.]), (SentH[text=It demands not only justice but health care and humanity.], SentH[text=This includes access to affordable housing, SNAP, education, childcare, contraception, employment and mental health care. The sexual exploitation of children is not just a heinous crime, but a public health catastrophe and a moral collapse. It demands not only justice but health care and humanity. We cannot let the headlines overshadow the victims. We must act not only to prevent this from happening to any children in the future, but to also build a world where victims feel supported and empowered to take back their lives.]), (SentH[text=“It has been a very difficult time for me personally, mentally and emotionally dealing with the circus around the ‘Epstein Files’.”], SentH[text=After the Justice Department asked for U.S. District Judge Richard Berman to release grand jury testimony in the case against Jeffrey Epstein, the judge received an anonymous letter from one of the late financier’s many victims. “I come forward to you today in disdain, disgust and fear of how the United States of America’s DOJ has handled the promise to release the ‘Epstein files,’” this victim wrote. “It has been a very difficult time for me personally, mentally and emotionally dealing with the circus around the ‘Epstein Files’.” Indeed, amid the news of a prison transfer for Epstein accomplice Ghislaine Maxwell, and the latest developments over whether documents will be unsealed, the victims are still suffering all the same. While much of the focus lately has been on the prominent figures that may have taken part in the sex trafficking scheme, we must never forget to focus on the health of the victims.]), (SentH[text=In the case of Epstein’s victims, that is adult versus child, man versus girl, wealthy versus poor.], SentH[text=Epstein’s victims were coerced by wealthy and influential men and women. Staggering power imbalances make self-escape nearly impossible. In the case of Epstein’s victims, that is adult versus child, man versus girl, wealthy versus poor. In the federal charges brought against Epstein, the victims were stated to be as young as 14. Abuse during these years disrupts brain development, impairs memory and learning capacity, damages self‑concept and identity, and limits trust in others.]), (SentH[text=And survivors should receive material support to rebuild their lives.], SentH[text=Clinicians should be trained not only in medical management but also in how to restore dignity, support autonomy and avoid re-traumatization. Treatment should include protections against retaliation and social shaming. And survivors should receive material support to rebuild their lives. This includes access to affordable housing, SNAP, education, childcare, contraception, employment and mental health care. The sexual exploitation of children is not just a heinous crime, but a public health catastrophe and a moral collapse.]), (SentH[text=We must confront more than criminal wrongdoing; we must also reckon with the lifelong physical and psychological devastation wrought on the victims.], SentH[text=Indeed, amid the news of a prison transfer for Epstein accomplice Ghislaine Maxwell, and the latest developments over whether documents will be unsealed, the victims are still suffering all the same. While much of the focus lately has been on the prominent figures that may have taken part in the sex trafficking scheme, we must never forget to focus on the health of the victims. We must confront more than criminal wrongdoing; we must also reckon with the lifelong physical and psychological devastation wrought on the victims. Victims typically enter exploitation during critical stages of their physical, emotional and cognitive development. The stories of survivors and those trafficked by Epstein and his accomplices cannot be reduced to scandalous headlines or footnotes in celebrity exposés.]), (SentH[text=Victims typically enter exploitation during critical stages of their physical, emotional and cognitive development.], SentH[text=Their experiences demand national reckoning and action to protect future children and bring justice to the victims. One Jane Doe, speaking in court in 2019, testified that she and the other victims “will always carry irreparable damage and pain throughout our lives after this.” Victims typically enter exploitation during critical stages of their physical, emotional and cognitive development. Many children are targeted simply because they are children: young, naive and vulnerable. Young girls who become victims of sex trafficking have been tricked or forced into sexual exploitation by acquaintances, employers or even family members.]), (SentH[text=They suffer not just one-time trauma, but a systemic and chronic assault on the (still developing) mind and body.], SentH[text=Survivors often carry shame and stigma, face social rejection, interrupted education and reduced economic opportunity later in life. Once caught in the web of a sex trafficking scheme, the young girls are treated as commodities, being used, sold and violated repeatedly. They suffer not just one-time trauma, but a systemic and chronic assault on the (still developing) mind and body. Victims of sex trafficking often live with lifelong physical consequences. They may have endured repeated physical violence: rape, beatings, burns, fractures, infectious exposures and more.]), (SentH[text=They may have endured repeated physical violence: rape, beatings, burns, fractures, infectious exposures and more.], SentH[text=They suffer not just one-time trauma, but a systemic and chronic assault on the (still developing) mind and body. Victims of sex trafficking often live with lifelong physical consequences. They may have endured repeated physical violence: rape, beatings, burns, fractures, infectious exposures and more. They face high rates of sexually transmitted infections, including HIV, and elevated risks of cervical cancer, infertility, pregnancy complications and unsafe abortion injuries. Some victims experience chronic pain, untreated injuries, malnutrition, dehydration, traumatic brain injuries and complications from untreated infections that persist long after their escape.]), (SentH[text=They need both human compassion from us as individuals and a structural response from us as a whole.], SentH[text=But each one lives with unique injuries, losses and scars. Their pain cannot be captured by a diagnostic checklist. They need both human compassion from us as individuals and a structural response from us as a whole. Our responsibility does not end with the prosecution of perpetrators. Legal justice is essential, but insufficient.]), (SentH[text=Many victims form trauma bonds, a psychological survival strategy that can look like loyalty or silence from the outside, but is in fact a symptom of deep, systemic abuse.], SentH[text=Traffickers use coercion, manipulation, emotional bonding and isolation to target their victims. They exploit children’s desire for safety, love and stability, only to use those needs against them. Many victims form trauma bonds, a psychological survival strategy that can look like loyalty or silence from the outside, but is in fact a symptom of deep, systemic abuse. As a result, victims are more likely to experience post-traumatic stress disorder, severe depression, suicidal ideation, anxiety, dissociation and personality disorders. One study of trafficked minors found that over 50% had been diagnosed with ADHD, nearly half experienced depression and others suffered from anxiety, conduct disorder, oppositional defiant disorder, bipolar disorder and psychosis at far higher rates than other at-risk youth.]), (SentH[text=This year, Virginia Giuffre, a survivor of Epstein’s trafficking operation, died by suicide.], SentH[text=As a result, victims are more likely to experience post-traumatic stress disorder, severe depression, suicidal ideation, anxiety, dissociation and personality disorders. One study of trafficked minors found that over 50% had been diagnosed with ADHD, nearly half experienced depression and others suffered from anxiety, conduct disorder, oppositional defiant disorder, bipolar disorder and psychosis at far higher rates than other at-risk youth. This year, Virginia Giuffre, a survivor of Epstein’s trafficking operation, died by suicide. Her family wrote: “She lost her life to suicide after being a lifelong victim of sexual abuse and sex trafficking.” Not every survivor will suffer from every condition.]), (SentH[text="They all said like this is really, really, important.], SentH[text=He says: "All of these other Trump scandals like, taking this plane from Qatar, things like that, they've sort of immunised the audience to not care about these ethical conflicts, but the difference being that with Epstein. "I mean they, the right-wing media figures, people like Cash Patel, who's now in the administration. "They all said like this is really, really, important. You should care a lot about this and then suddenly, Trump says: 'Shut up. You're you're an idiot if you believe this'.]), (SentH[text=But Mr Sommer thinks this would be a difficult sell to the MAGA crowd, partly because it has happened so quickly.], SentH[text="Time will tell on that," he adds. One of the explanations that is surfacing among right wing commentators and conspiracy theorists is that maybe Ghislaine Maxwell is innocent, and maybe she could come clean, exonerate Mr Trump and name the real culprits. But Mr Sommer thinks this would be a difficult sell to the MAGA crowd, partly because it has happened so quickly. With other scandals like the storming of the US Capitol on 6 January 2021, there was time to build a counter narrative and suggest that maybe the rioters were innocent, but this has been so abrupt, there’s been no time to rehabilitate Maxwell for example "To convince people that it's OK to pardon this sex offender, like a sex trafficker," Mr Sommer says. It's the ultimate test of Trump's idea that that he could shoot someone in the middle of the street and get away with it."]), (SentH[text="Unlike anyone else in his administration or the wider MAGA media world, no one can really speak to the MAGA base quite like Trump," sayS Mr O’Connor.], SentH[text=It's the ultimate test of Trump's idea that that he could shoot someone in the middle of the street and get away with it." And ultimately it will be Trump rather than any right-wing influencers that will have to do the convincing. "Unlike anyone else in his administration or the wider MAGA media world, no one can really speak to the MAGA base quite like Trump," sayS Mr O’Connor. Nobody expects hardcore MAGA supporters to suddenly vote for democrats, but they could become disillusioned and not vote, and independent voters could be swayed. The Epstein files are likely to haunt the US President right up to next year’s mid-term elections and possibly beyond.]), (SentH[text=The conspiracy theory around the disgraced financier and sexual predator, that the US President helped fuel, seemingly has turned around to bite him.], SentH[text=Donald Trump has called the Epstein scandal 'bulls**t', he called believers "idiots" and "selfish people" and urged supporters to forget about his former friend, but unlike many other scandals involving the US president, it just won’t go away. Mr Trump’s handling of the Jeffrey Epstein scandal has been the administration's biggest political problem to date. The conspiracy theory around the disgraced financier and sexual predator, that the US President helped fuel, seemingly has turned around to bite him. Many loyal Trump followers believe Epstein kept a list of hugely powerful people who had engaged in sex with women and underage girls that he trafficked. The conspiracy suggests Epstein didn’t take his own life but rather that these powerful people on the list had him killed before he could out them.]), (SentH[text=But when Trump’s Department of Justice announced last month that the list didn’t exist, many lost faith.], SentH[text=The conspiracy suggests Epstein didn’t take his own life but rather that these powerful people on the list had him killed before he could out them. Believers have been calling for the release of this list for years, and when US Attorney General Pam Bondi said in February that the list was sitting on her desk, conspiracists broke into a fever. But when Trump’s Department of Justice announced last month that the list didn’t exist, many lost faith. There has been fierce criticism of Donald Trump, from some of his most fervent supporters for the first time, from QAnon influencers to conservative podcast hosts. QAnon is a widely followed conspiracy theory purporting that a mysterious government insider called Q is leaking secrets to help Mr Trump battle the deep state and a cabal of powerful paedophiles, including the likes of Hillary Clinton.]), (SentH[text="Conspiracy theories are elastic, they're self-sealing and they're quite often impossible to disprove," he said.], SentH[text=But the narrative that all the conspiracists have turned against their supposed saviour, isn’t quite as clear cut as it has been made out. Ciarán O’Connor, who researches conspiracy theories for think tank ISD Global, said the belief in conspiracy theories is very hard to break. "Conspiracy theories are elastic, they're self-sealing and they're quite often impossible to disprove," he said. "Especially to a base that is radicalised and so supportive and has been fed a diet of conspiracy fantasy plots over time by someone like President Trump". But, Will Sommer, journalist with The Bullwark and author of 'Trust the Plan: The Rise of QAnon and the Conspiracy That Unhinged America' says this feels different.]), (SentH[text=Much ire has been directed towards Kash Patel, director of the FBI and Dan Bongino, deputy director of the FBI, both of whom made their name as conspiracy theory peddlers whose central theme was the need to expose the Epstein list.], SentH[text=Some blips in conspiracies, like the promise to arrest Hillary Clinton that didn’t happen, can be explained away as part of a longer-term plan, but the Epstein list is so central to the whole conspiracy world, that it can't be just batted away. "Donald Trump has tried distraction in recent weeks, by bringing up the 'Russia Hoax' and suggesting that [Barack] Obama could be arrested by posting a fake AI video of the former president being hauled off in cuffs from the Oval Office, but people have seen through the tactic and become even more enraged," says Mr O'Connor. Much ire has been directed towards Kash Patel, director of the FBI and Dan Bongino, deputy director of the FBI, both of whom made their name as conspiracy theory peddlers whose central theme was the need to expose the Epstein list. But now that they are in government they are towing the same line as previous administrations, whom they labelled as the deep state that Donald Trump is supposedly battling. Loyal followers like podcaster Andrew Shulz are turning against Mr Trump.]), (SentH[text="Why would you put the two guys that have non-stop pounded the pavement talking about how we’re going to expose this Epstein thing, and the second they get in there like: ‘You better shut the f**k up."], SentH[text=Loyal followers like podcaster Andrew Shulz are turning against Mr Trump. On his hugely successful show Flagrant this week, he said: "He put Bongino and Kash in there, which might be the stupidest thing in the history of the world. "Why would you put the two guys that have non-stop pounded the pavement talking about how we’re going to expose this Epstein thing, and the second they get in there like: ‘You better shut the f**k up." 'A line in the sand' Even podcasting powerhouse Joe Rogan has called the Epstein issue "a line in the sand". It seems the best media manipulator in all of politics is fundamentally misreading the media landscape before him.]), (SentH[text=We know from reporting in the Wall Street Journal that Pam Bondi told the president that he's mentioned in the Epstein files, not necessarily in a criminal way, but it certainly could be embarrassing for him.], SentH[text=It seems the best media manipulator in all of politics is fundamentally misreading the media landscape before him. Mr Sommer says it’s very unusual for Donald Trump to be so out of step with his base for even 24 hours, and now we’ve seen a whole month of it. We know from reporting in the Wall Street Journal that Pam Bondi told the president that he's mentioned in the Epstein files, not necessarily in a criminal way, but it certainly could be embarrassing for him. "It seems he's acting in a way that that seems so unlike him but that he's sort of protecting something larger or avoiding a bigger pain," says Mr Sommer. Yet such is the elasticity and strength of belief in the conspiracy that Mr O'Connor doesn't rule it out.]), (SentH[text=These are women who’ve been let down for years, at multiple levels, by a government that was supposed to keep them safe.], SentH[text=The women whom Jeffrey Epstein abused demand to be heard. And their voices — long suppressed, but now emerging powerfully and with courage — could further fuel the maelstrom around President Donald Trump and aides who dig the scandal deeper each time they try to end it. These are women who’ve been let down for years, at multiple levels, by a government that was supposed to keep them safe. Their families are victims, too, since abuse sows trauma through generations. And it’s happening again as the Trump administration refuses to release files about Epstein’s life, which several of its members had promised to make public.]), (SentH[text=“She wasn’t stolen, she was preyed upon at his property, at President Trump’s property … ‘stolen’ seems very impersonal.], SentH[text=When Trump was asked about Giuffre, he said he recalled that Epstein “stole” her, as if she were chattel, from his employ at the spa at Mar-a-Lago. The inhumanity of Trump’s remark prompted Giuffre’s family to first speak up, in a move that appears to have encouraged other families to come forward. “She wasn’t stolen, she was preyed upon at his property, at President Trump’s property … ‘stolen’ seems very impersonal. It feels very much like an object, and the survivors are not objects; women are not objects,” Roberts told CNN’s Collins last month. Hardly anyone at the White House has publicly voiced concern for those dragged into some of modern history’s most notorious sex crimes.]), (SentH[text=They were the victims of justice denied when Epstein killed himself in prison rather than face trial.], SentH[text=They were victimized by a lenient Florida plea deal in 2008 that allowed Epstein, an accused sex trafficker, to escape federal charges and a possible long prison term. He used the time he got back to perpetrate more horrendous crimes. They were the victims of justice denied when Epstein killed himself in prison rather than face trial. A modicum of recognition arrived when Maxwell was convicted. But that vindication is under threat because of politics.]), (SentH[text=Using the Department of Justice to protect Trump, not victims Now, top administration officials are using the power of the Department of Justice in a plan apparently designed to take the political heat off Trump over his past relationship with Epstein.], SentH[text=But that vindication is under threat because of politics. The conspiracy theorists who made this an animating cause of the MAGA right profess to care about child sex trafficking, but the coverage in fringe right-wing media rarely mentions the plight of victims themselves. Using the Department of Justice to protect Trump, not victims Now, top administration officials are using the power of the Department of Justice in a plan apparently designed to take the political heat off Trump over his past relationship with Epstein. The clue is in the name — the Department of Justice. It’s supposed to deliver justice to victims and to honor their suffering.]), (SentH[text=Freeman lamented that those caught up in the Epstein political saga have been “ignoring the survivors over and over ….], SentH[text=“When the voices are so strong from everyone else except for them. They’re not given any attention whatsoever.” Freeman lamented that those caught up in the Epstein political saga have been “ignoring the survivors over and over …. (in) one of the largest law enforcement failures in US history.” The disrespect keeps on coming.]), (SentH[text=Then Blanche, Trump’s former personal lawyer, interviewed Maxwell.], SentH[text=It has asked a judge to release grand jury testimony about the Epstein case, apparently hoping to slake demands for transparency by MAGA influencers. But the material is only a fraction of what the Justice Department controls. Then Blanche, Trump’s former personal lawyer, interviewed Maxwell. Then, mysteriously, Maxwell was moved to a much more comfortable prison in a highly unusual show of leniency for a sex offender. This fueled warnings of a cover-up, since Maxwell has an incentive to help Trump politically: He has the power to pardon her or improve her conditions.]), (SentH[text=“We’d like to release everything, but we don’t want people to get hurt that shouldn’t be hurt, and I would assume that was why he was there,” Trump told Newsmax a week ago.], SentH[text=The disrespect keeps on coming. In an interview with Newsmax last week, Trump was asked why Blanche met with Maxwell. “We’d like to release everything, but we don’t want people to get hurt that shouldn’t be hurt, and I would assume that was why he was there,” Trump told Newsmax a week ago. But it seemed to prioritize people who came into contact with Epstein, including himself, rather than those who have already been hurt — the victims. CNN reported this week that audio tapes were made of the Maxwell interview and that officials are considering releasing a transcript.]), (SentH[text=“This is a human issue, and I think we need to bring that back because we are dehumanizing survivors by not bringing justice forward.”], SentH[text=“What they really need is for it to go away,” Sky Roberts, the brother of one of Epstein’s most prominent victims, Virginia Giuffre, told CNN’s Erin Burnett on Thursday. “There’s a lack of transparency here and what we are not hearing is … we are not hearing the survivors’ voices coming through,” Roberts said. “This is a human issue, and I think we need to bring that back because we are dehumanizing survivors by not bringing justice forward.” Giuffre took her own life in Australia, where she lived, earlier this year. In a sign of the administration’s political priorities, there were no Epstein survivors represented at a Wednesday night White House meeting that addressed the crisis, CNN reported.]), (SentH[text=The White House has tried other ruses to make the scandal go away.], SentH[text=“I think it’s pretty clear that these survivors are not a hoax. They had something taken from them that they can never get back.” The White House has tried other ruses to make the scandal go away. It has asked a judge to release grand jury testimony about the Epstein case, apparently hoping to slake demands for transparency by MAGA influencers. But the material is only a fraction of what the Justice Department controls.]), (SentH[text=“It’s not a hoax,” Roberts told Burnett on Thursday, his voice breaking.], SentH[text=Trump, increasingly agitated as the Epstein fallout drowns out his presidency, keeps blasting the entire Epstein drama as a “hoax” in remarks that only makes the anguish worse. He even called it B.S. on Wednesday. “It’s not a hoax,” Roberts told Burnett on Thursday, his voice breaking. “I think it’s pretty clear that these survivors are not a hoax. They had something taken from them that they can never get back.”]), (SentH[text=Trump has never been investigated or charged over anything to do with Epstein, whom he knew in the 1990s and early 2000s.], SentH[text=And it’s happening again as the Trump administration refuses to release files about Epstein’s life, which several of its members had promised to make public. CNN has reported that Attorney General Pam Bondi briefed Trump in May that his name was mentioned in the files, among those of other high-profile figures. Trump has never been investigated or charged over anything to do with Epstein, whom he knew in the 1990s and early 2000s. The White House says Trump threw Epstein out of Mar-a-Lago because he was “a creep.” But hardly anyone at the White House ever mentions the young women whom Epstein used and abused.]), (SentH[text=But they fear what will happen with Maxwell and the pardon that Trump keeps saying he has the constitutional authority to grant.], SentH[text=But there is growing scrutiny over how often he’s mentioned in the Epstein files held by the Justice Department. Some victims want all of the Epstein files publicly released so any men who associated with the accused sex offender must account for what they knew about his activities. But they fear what will happen with Maxwell and the pardon that Trump keeps saying he has the constitutional authority to grant. Such an outcome would be another betrayal of those who have suffered so terribly already.]), (SentH[text=“I think this is really about people using their power to harm others, and that is not a political issue,” Farmer said, referring to Epstein’s past conduct.], SentH[text=Some victims and their families view the meeting as a political maneuver to find a way to refocus attention away from Trump. “I hate that it has been politicized the way it is because I think we lose sight of the bigger picture in that,” Farmer said on “The Source.” “I think this is really about people using their power to harm others, and that is not a political issue,” Farmer said, referring to Epstein’s past conduct. “I think people on both sides care about the safety of children and I really hope that Trump understands that a message is being sent beyond just the individuals involved in this case to the wider community about the seriousness of these types of crimes.” The question now is whether survivors and their families can coalesce as a political force as they seek to influence the administration’s decision-making — even if they are seldom mentioned by MAGA media.]), (SentH[text=Will their influence further complicate a controversy that the White House has downplayed and dismissed but that keeps growing?], SentH[text=The question now is whether survivors and their families can coalesce as a political force as they seek to influence the administration’s decision-making — even if they are seldom mentioned by MAGA media. Can they secure the recognition of which they were so often deprived by the justice system? Will their influence further complicate a controversy that the White House has downplayed and dismissed but that keeps growing? And could they add a new dimension of political exposure for a White House so far mostly concerned with extinguishing a scandal that is uniquely dangerous for Trump — because it opened a rift between him and his base? Could that increased attention even make it more difficult to for Trump to pardon Maxwell, if that is his intention?]), (SentH[text=Could that increased attention even make it more difficult to for Trump to pardon Maxwell, if that is his intention?], SentH[text=Will their influence further complicate a controversy that the White House has downplayed and dismissed but that keeps growing? And could they add a new dimension of political exposure for a White House so far mostly concerned with extinguishing a scandal that is uniquely dangerous for Trump — because it opened a rift between him and his base? Could that increased attention even make it more difficult to for Trump to pardon Maxwell, if that is his intention? Victims have been ignored for years It’s nothing new that the powerful are ignoring the victims. It’s been running on repeat for years.]), (SentH[text=She has a sense of fun that appeals to people.], SentH[text=The book depicts her as being in an endless loop of binge spending, debt and then convoluted deals, sponsorships and freebies, to try to get her finances on track, before the cycle begins again. But there is no doubting her remarkable capacity to keep bouncing back and to keep on plugging away, when others would have been down and out years ago. She has a sense of fun that appeals to people. The book tells how successful she was at boosting sales as an ambassador for Waterford Wedgwood, then owned by Tony O'Reilly. She was described by staff as "brilliant at working a room, fresh, chic and wasn't stuffy".]), (SentH[text=Sources from his time in the navy saw his "bombastic" exterior as concealing a much more vulnerable and socially awkward figure, whose upbringing had made him unsure how to behave.], SentH[text=If this seems like a torrent of bad news, the book also raises some deeper questions about what lies behind Prince Andrew's character. There are suggestions of an often lonely and isolated figure, obsessed with sex but much weaker at relationships. Sources from his time in the navy saw his "bombastic" exterior as concealing a much more vulnerable and socially awkward figure, whose upbringing had made him unsure how to behave. He showed authentic courage when he flew helicopters in the Falklands war and he was remembered as being willing to "muck in" during that stressful time, when crews were living on canned food rather than fine dining. On his fascination for sex, an unnamed source claims Andrew lost his virginity at the age of 11, which the same source likens to a form of abuse.]), (SentH[text=After his disastrous BBC Newsnight interview and the court case with Virginia Giuffre - which he settled with a rejection of any wrongdoing - Prince Andrew has been pushed out of public life, no longer a "working royal".], SentH[text=Prince Andrew is the only one of them not to be either dead or in prison. And Lownie's sources cast doubt on whether Epstein did take his own life, questioning the medical evidence and the series of unfortunate gaps in supervision in the jail where he was being held. After his disastrous BBC Newsnight interview and the court case with Virginia Giuffre - which he settled with a rejection of any wrongdoing - Prince Andrew has been pushed out of public life, no longer a "working royal". Historian Ed Owens says it is almost six years since that Newsnight interview, but Prince Andrew is still appearing in news stories "for all the wrong reasons". "This isn't good for the monarchy," he says, even though "King Charles and Prince William have sought to limit the reputational damage Andrew can have on 'brand Windsor'," says Owens.]), (SentH[text=Andrew Lownie's book, Entitled: The Rise and Fall of the House of York, is an unrelentingly unflattering portrait of Prince Andrew.], SentH[text=Prince Andrew book seals his fate for any return This searing biography of Prince Andrew crackles with scandals about sex and money on almost every page, two subjects that have always caused problems for the royals. Andrew Lownie's book, Entitled: The Rise and Fall of the House of York, is an unrelentingly unflattering portrait of Prince Andrew. It depicts him as arrogant, self-seeking and in denial about his links to the sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. The author's best-selling biographies have a habit of changing the reputation of famous figures, such as establishing the Nazi intrigues around the Duke of Windsor, the former Edward VIII.]), (SentH[text=And for anyone thinking they have heard much of this story before, it is the extra and sometimes unexpected, throwaway details that will make this a fascinating read.], SentH[text=It is hard to see how he might come back from this. This account, more than 450 pages, is said to have taken four years to research, involving hundreds of interviews. And for anyone thinking they have heard much of this story before, it is the extra and sometimes unexpected, throwaway details that will make this a fascinating read. Like comedian Billy Connolly and Sir Elton John being at Prince Andrew's stag night. Or film maker Woody Allen being at the same dinner with Prince Andrew at Epstein's house in Manhattan.]), (SentH[text=About their academic ability, the book says that Prince Andrew and his former wife Sarah Ferguson passed two O-levels at their respective expensive private schools.], SentH[text=This detail tallies with a piece in the New York Times this week that quotes a birthday greeting written by Allen to Epstein, which references "even royalty" being at one of Epstein's dinners. To rapidly lose some mid-life weight, when he was going out with a younger woman, the book records that Prince Andrew lived on a crash diet of "stewed prunes for breakfast, raw vegetables for lunch and soup for supper". About their academic ability, the book says that Prince Andrew and his former wife Sarah Ferguson passed two O-levels at their respective expensive private schools. Andrew had to re-take exams the following year before going on to take A-levels. Now in disgrace, Prince Andrew is claimed to spend his time, when not riding or golfing, cooped up watching aviation videos and reading thrillers, with The Talented Mr Ripley said to be his favourite.]), (SentH[text="It's a scandal that just won't go away for the Royal Family, even though they've tried to distance themselves from Andrew," he says.], SentH[text=The book is already riding high in the best-seller charts and royal commentator Richard Palmer says it raises difficult topical questions. "It puts Andrew back at the front and centre of the Jeffrey Epstein scandal at a time when Donald Trump is facing serious questions about his own friendship with the late paedophile," says Palmer. "It's a scandal that just won't go away for the Royal Family, even though they've tried to distance themselves from Andrew," he says. Entitled: The Rise and Fall of the House of York by Andrew Lownie, published by William Collins, will be released on 14 August Sign up here to get the latest royal stories and analysis every week with our Royal Watch newsletter. Those outside the UK can sign up here.]), (SentH[text=It is also strong on the unbalanced nature of their relationship, with a friend of Andrew's describing the prince's dealings with Epstein as "like putting a rattlesnake in an aquarium with a mouse".], SentH[text=Top of that list must be Jeffrey Epstein. Lownie's book offers meticulous detail of the connections between Prince Andrew and the US financier and sex offender, establishing links that went back to the early 1990s, earlier than had previously been established. It is also strong on the unbalanced nature of their relationship, with a friend of Andrew's describing the prince's dealings with Epstein as "like putting a rattlesnake in an aquarium with a mouse". Epstein's sleazy and abusive world, with its mix of easy money and exploitative sex, was ultimately a form of blackmail operation, claims Lownie's book. It gave him something to hold over the many powerful people who came into his orbit.]), (SentH[text=It gave him something to hold over the many powerful people who came into his orbit.], SentH[text=It is also strong on the unbalanced nature of their relationship, with a friend of Andrew's describing the prince's dealings with Epstein as "like putting a rattlesnake in an aquarium with a mouse". Epstein's sleazy and abusive world, with its mix of easy money and exploitative sex, was ultimately a form of blackmail operation, claims Lownie's book. It gave him something to hold over the many powerful people who came into his orbit. The book is a reminder of the scale and seediness of Epstein's exploitation of girls. It is also an account of the destruction that followed.]), (SentH[text=The Paris-based journalist Peter Allen, among the sources for the book, says many of Andrew's problems reflect on his "flawed character".], SentH[text=It is claimed he swore at and insulted staff, bawling someone out as an "imbecile" for not using the Queen Mother's full title. Protection officers were despatched to collect golf balls and private jets seemed to be hired as casually as an Uber on a night out. The Paris-based journalist Peter Allen, among the sources for the book, says many of Andrew's problems reflect on his "flawed character". "He's been afforded every type of privilege, all his life, while displaying very poor judgement and getting into highly compromising situations." Known as "Baby Grumpling" in his early years, Andrew was claimed to have moved people from jobs because one was wearing a nylon tie, and another because he had a mole on his face.]), (SentH[text=There are some more gentle anecdotes about him, such as when he was a helicopter pilot and ferried a group of soldiers from a rifle range and decided to put down on the Sandringham estate.], SentH[text=Now in disgrace, Prince Andrew is claimed to spend his time, when not riding or golfing, cooped up watching aviation videos and reading thrillers, with The Talented Mr Ripley said to be his favourite. It is about a con-man taking on the identity of a wealthy playboy. There are some more gentle anecdotes about him, such as when he was a helicopter pilot and ferried a group of soldiers from a rifle range and decided to put down on the Sandringham estate. Queen Elizabeth II, who was in residence, was said to have looked at the guns being toted by these unexpected arrivals. "You can put those in there if you like," she said, pointing to an umbrella stand.]), (SentH[text="You can put those in there if you like," she said, pointing to an umbrella stand.], SentH[text=There are some more gentle anecdotes about him, such as when he was a helicopter pilot and ferried a group of soldiers from a rifle range and decided to put down on the Sandringham estate. Queen Elizabeth II, who was in residence, was said to have looked at the guns being toted by these unexpected arrivals. "You can put those in there if you like," she said, pointing to an umbrella stand. But the biography is much more crowded with anecdotes about his rudeness and his acute lack of self awareness, not to mention a prodigious number of quick-fire affairs. It is claimed he swore at and insulted staff, bawling someone out as an "imbecile" for not using the Queen Mother's full title.]), (SentH[text=The so-called Epstein Files have become a divisive flashpoint among Republicans.], SentH[text=Pressley stressed that granting survivors the opportunity to appear before Congress is critical in ensuring they receive justice and the American people hear their truth. “We do have some survivors that have expressed a clear willingness and desire to come before Congress and it’s important that if they have the strength, the courage and the bravery to raise their hand and say, ‘Call upon me’ then we cannot meet them with inaction and complicity,” she said. The so-called Epstein Files have become a divisive flashpoint among Republicans. Infighting continues on the right after President Donald Trump campaigned on a promise to publicly release the files; last month Attorney General Pam Bondi — who had announced in February that the alleged Epstein “client list” was sitting on her desk — said that no such client list existed and no further files would be released. The backlash was immediate, with many MAGA faithful and Democrats alike asking why the Trump administration, once adamant about talking about Epstein and forever invoking their prioritization of protecting women and children from sexual predators, was no longer going to release additional information about a man convicted of sex trafficking minors.]), (SentH[text=Pressley has publicly shared her own experiences as a survivor of both childhood sexual abuse and sexual assault while in college, and is a leading voice in Congress on prioritizing survivor voices as a critical step towards holistic justice.], SentH[text=Pressley and 15 Democratic colleagues argued in the letter to House Oversight Chairman James Comer that, in light of the national conversation around Epstein and whatever Department of Justice files may exist pertaining to his trafficking and sexual abuse crimes, Congress should be hearing directly from survivors. The Massachusetts Democrat is no stranger to speaking out on behalf of survivors — herself included. Pressley has publicly shared her own experiences as a survivor of both childhood sexual abuse and sexual assault while in college, and is a leading voice in Congress on prioritizing survivor voices as a critical step towards holistic justice. “I know the pain and trauma that survivors carry. Those that have been victimized by Epstein and his co-conspirators, they deserve this transparency, this accountability, this healing, and I think they’ve not been centered enough,” Pressley told The 19th.]), (SentH[text=Recent actions by the Trump administration have contradicted the near-constant rhetoric from Republicans about protecting women, halting human trafficking and guarding children from sex crimes.], SentH[text=Those that have been victimized by Epstein and his co-conspirators, they deserve this transparency, this accountability, this healing, and I think they’ve not been centered enough,” Pressley told The 19th. “People have gotten distracted and derailed with what they perceive as the political gamemanship of this and people doing what my Republican colleagues do so often, which is playing games with people’s lives.” Recent actions by the Trump administration have contradicted the near-constant rhetoric from Republicans about protecting women, halting human trafficking and guarding children from sex crimes. Last month, the State Department implemented a so-called ‘reduction-in-force’ within the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons (TIP), effectively decimating a team that worked to combat labor and sex trafficking abroad and helped coordinate domestic efforts across other agencies, including the departments of Justice, Health and Human Services, and Labor. Lately, Pressley said she has been thinking back to two seminal moments in her own life where she learned the power of survivor testimony.]), (SentH[text=However, in the GOP-controlled Congress under the second Trump administration, Comer, a six-term lawmaker from Kentucky, and other Republicans are unlikely to heed any requests from their Democratic colleagues, especially about the Epstein investigation.], SentH[text=The House Oversight Committee is one of the most powerful bodies in the legislative branch, with the ability to carry out its own investigations of the federal government by conducting its own investigations, including but not limited a process that includes holding hearings, issuing subpoenas and reporting findings to not only Congress but the public. Historically, the committee has operated with a fair amount of bipartisanship. However, in the GOP-controlled Congress under the second Trump administration, Comer, a six-term lawmaker from Kentucky, and other Republicans are unlikely to heed any requests from their Democratic colleagues, especially about the Epstein investigation. Pressley stressed that granting survivors the opportunity to appear before Congress is critical in ensuring they receive justice and the American people hear their truth. “We do have some survivors that have expressed a clear willingness and desire to come before Congress and it’s important that if they have the strength, the courage and the bravery to raise their hand and say, ‘Call upon me’ then we cannot meet them with inaction and complicity,” she said.]), (SentH[text=The other is watching Anita Hill testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee during confirmation hearings for future-Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas in 1991 about the sexual harassment she said she experienced while working for him.], SentH[text=Lately, Pressley said she has been thinking back to two seminal moments in her own life where she learned the power of survivor testimony. One is reading Maya Angelou’s memoir, “I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings,” and understanding for the first time “that I was not alone in the world.” The other is watching Anita Hill testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee during confirmation hearings for future-Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas in 1991 about the sexual harassment she said she experienced while working for him. Pressley’s mother taped Hill’s testimony on VHS each day and would play it for Pressley when she came home from school. “My mother, not even knowing what I was navigating with the intra-family abuse that I was experiencing, she recognized the historic significance and the bravery of Anita in that moment,” she said.]), (SentH[text=Pressley said she understands the two-fold lesson her mother wanted her to glean from Hill’s testimony: the power and strength of Hill’s choice to speak out publicly and “how hard institutions and culture could work to silence her voice.”], SentH[text=Pressley’s mother taped Hill’s testimony on VHS each day and would play it for Pressley when she came home from school. “My mother, not even knowing what I was navigating with the intra-family abuse that I was experiencing, she recognized the historic significance and the bravery of Anita in that moment,” she said. Pressley said she understands the two-fold lesson her mother wanted her to glean from Hill’s testimony: the power and strength of Hill’s choice to speak out publicly and “how hard institutions and culture could work to silence her voice.” These days, Pressley has also been thinking about the full-circle moment she experienced when, years later, Hill presented her with the Victim Rights Law Center Leadership Award in 2014. While embracing on stage, Hill whispered to Pressley, “I believe you.”]), (SentH[text=It’s why Pressley and her co-signers — the committee’s Ranking Member Robert Garcia and Reps. Eleanor Holmes Norton, Stephen F. Lynch, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Ro Khanna, Kweisi Mfume, Summer Lee, Greg Casar, Jasmine Crockett, Emily Randall, Suhas Subramanyam, Yassamin Ansari, Lateefah Simon, Dave Min and Rashida Tlaib — want a hearing where victims get to speak.], SentH[text=Pressley also underscored the degree to which the Trump administration has rolled back meaningful gains made for survivors by the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) and other federal programs, including access to behavioral health and support services for survivors. “There’s a divestment of federal support in many of these programs and policies and proven models of successful, community-based organizations that support survivors,” she said. It’s why Pressley and her co-signers — the committee’s Ranking Member Robert Garcia and Reps. Eleanor Holmes Norton, Stephen F. Lynch, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Ro Khanna, Kweisi Mfume, Summer Lee, Greg Casar, Jasmine Crockett, Emily Randall, Suhas Subramanyam, Yassamin Ansari, Lateefah Simon, Dave Min and Rashida Tlaib — want a hearing where victims get to speak. “The role and responsibility of this committee is to make sure that we center who and what matters most to this moment, and that is truth and this is survivors,” Pressley said. “I think only by hearing directly from people who have been so devastatingly impacted can people understand and join the cause with us and link arms in this fight.]), (SentH[text=They have to hear it for themselves.”], SentH[text=“The role and responsibility of this committee is to make sure that we center who and what matters most to this moment, and that is truth and this is survivors,” Pressley said. “I think only by hearing directly from people who have been so devastatingly impacted can people understand and join the cause with us and link arms in this fight. They have to hear it for themselves.” Should Comer not grant the survivors a hearing, Pressley said she’s far from done in continuing in this work. “If it doesn’t happen, I will remind people why it didn’t happen and that those elected officials are on the side of predators, while the Democrats are on the side of survivors,” she said.]), (SentH[text=“Democrat billionaires and Democrat political leaders went to Epstein island all the time,” Vance accused on Fox News.], SentH[text=Although Attorney General Pam Bondi claimed that Epstein’s infamous client list was “sitting on my desk right now to review” in February of this year, last month, the DOJ released a memo stating that after an “exhaustive review,” officials decided there was no evidence of an “incriminating ‘client list.’” Hence, the administration’s PR policy of distract and deflect. “Democrat billionaires and Democrat political leaders went to Epstein island all the time,” Vance accused on Fox News. “Who knows what they did.” It’s true that Epstein had ties to former president Bill Clinton and billionaire Bill Gates as well as former British prime minister Tony Blair and Prince Andrew.]), (SentH[text=A recent UMass Amherst poll revealed that 70 percent of respondents believe Trump is not handling the Epstein case well, and 63 percent said that the Trump administration “is hiding important information” about the case.], SentH[text=But by 2019 — after Epstein was arrested by the FBI — Trump claimed, “I was not a fan of his, that I can tell you,” and said they had not been friends for 15 years. Americans thus far are mostly not fooled by the Trump administration’s ham-handed attempts to distract them from the issue. A recent UMass Amherst poll revealed that 70 percent of respondents believe Trump is not handling the Epstein case well, and 63 percent said that the Trump administration “is hiding important information” about the case.]), (SentH[text=Vance Tries to Convince Americans That Trump Wants ‘Full Transparency’ in Epstein Case If you believe J.D. Vance, Donald Trump wants “full transparency” when it comes to the Jeffrey Epstein sex trafficking case.], SentH[text=Vance Tries to Convince Americans That Trump Wants ‘Full Transparency’ in Epstein Case If you believe J.D. Vance, Donald Trump wants “full transparency” when it comes to the Jeffrey Epstein sex trafficking case. Of course, if that were true, we’d know what the Epstein files say about the president and others who were close with the billionaire who trafficked underage girls. Instead, the administration — through Vance — is trying to distract Americans from focusing on Trump’s relationship with Epstein and is instead pointing the finger at “left-wing politicians and left-wing billionaires.”]), (SentH[text=“We know that Jeffrey Epstein had a lot connections with left-wing politicians and left-wing billionaires,” Vance said in an interview with Maria Bartiromo that aired Sunday on Fox News, “and now President Trump has demanded full transparency from this, and yet somehow the Democrats are attacking him and not the Biden administration which did nothing for four years.”], SentH[text=Of course, if that were true, we’d know what the Epstein files say about the president and others who were close with the billionaire who trafficked underage girls. Instead, the administration — through Vance — is trying to distract Americans from focusing on Trump’s relationship with Epstein and is instead pointing the finger at “left-wing politicians and left-wing billionaires.” “We know that Jeffrey Epstein had a lot connections with left-wing politicians and left-wing billionaires,” Vance said in an interview with Maria Bartiromo that aired Sunday on Fox News, “and now President Trump has demanded full transparency from this, and yet somehow the Democrats are attacking him and not the Biden administration which did nothing for four years.” Far from demanding “full transparency,” Trump and his administration have evaded calls to release the contents of the files. Although Attorney General Pam Bondi claimed that Epstein’s infamous client list was “sitting on my desk right now to review” in February of this year, last month, the DOJ released a memo stating that after an “exhaustive review,” officials decided there was no evidence of an “incriminating ‘client list.’”]), (SentH[text=But there are no records of Clinton going to Epstein’s private island, despite Trump’s recent allegation that the former president visited the island “28 times.”], SentH[text=One Epstein victim testified that, according to Epstein, Clinton liked “young… girls.” “[Epstein] said one time that Clinton likes them young, referring to girls,” Johanna Sjoberg testified in a 2016 deposition. But there are no records of Clinton going to Epstein’s private island, despite Trump’s recent allegation that the former president visited the island “28 times.” Of course, one way to clear all this up would be for Trump’s administration to release the contents of the Epstein files with victims’ identification redacted. But the president might not want to do that, considering his own once close relationship with Epstein and reports that he is named multiple times in the files.]), (SentH[text=“I’ve known Jeff for 15 years.], SentH[text=In recorded conversations with author Michael Wolff, Epstein once called himself “Donald’s closest friend for 10 years.” Trump also described himself and Epstein as friendly. “I’ve known Jeff for 15 years. He’s a lot of fun to be with,” Trump told New York Magazine in 2002. “It is even said that he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the younger side.”])]