[(SentH[text=The White House stepped up pressure against Harvard Friday, adding a new investigation into the university’s patents and renewing a host of claims that the university is unfit to host international students.], SentH[text=Harvard University and the White House are discussing a deal to end their legal battles. But Friday’s moves suggested that the relationship remained contentious. The White House stepped up pressure against Harvard Friday, adding a new investigation into the university’s patents and renewing a host of claims that the university is unfit to host international students. The two sides have been working to resolve their differences in recent weeks, but a court motion filed by the government on Friday in a dispute over international students suggested there is still deep acrimony. The motion accuses Harvard of failure to control crime, and claims that Harvard’s leadership has “shown itself to be incapable of properly hosting, monitoring, disciplining, and reporting on its foreign students.”]), (SentH[text=The additional pressures on Harvard come during a week when the government had also taken significant steps to bring other schools into line with its agenda.], SentH[text=On the same day, Commerce Secretary Howard W. Lutnick sent a letter to Alan M. Garber, Harvard’s president, claiming that the university had not lived up to its obligations surrounding federally funded patents, which are worth hundreds of millions of dollars. According to the letter, the agency will begin a comprehensive review of Harvard’s compliance with federal law. The additional pressures on Harvard come during a week when the government had also taken significant steps to bring other schools into line with its agenda. President Trump issued a directive that would require colleges and universities to submit reams of new data on students to check whether they are complying with a Supreme Court decision that ended race-based affirmative action. The White House also intensified its campaign against the University of California, Los Angeles, which it stripped of hundreds of millions in research funds over a list of issues.]), (SentH[text=When Judge Allison Burroughs of federal court in Boston temporarily blocked the administration action, the White House countered in June by issuing a proclamation blocking international students that invoked a different provision of law.], SentH[text=In the court case involving Harvard, the Justice Department was asking a judge to throw out one of two pending lawsuits filed by Harvard against the administration, this one involving the right of the nation’s oldest university to host international students. Earlier in the year, Kristi Noem, the homeland security secretary, moved to end Harvard’s right to host the students. When Judge Allison Burroughs of federal court in Boston temporarily blocked the administration action, the White House countered in June by issuing a proclamation blocking international students that invoked a different provision of law. Judge Burroughs, who has expressed skepticism of the Trump administration’s crusade against Harvard from the bench and also in written orders, also blocked that effort, issuing a preliminary injunction. On Friday, the government moved to dismiss the lawsuit entirely.]), (SentH[text=(The government’s motion on Friday applied only to the case involving international students.], SentH[text=Judge Burroughs, who has expressed skepticism of the Trump administration’s crusade against Harvard from the bench and also in written orders, also blocked that effort, issuing a preliminary injunction. On Friday, the government moved to dismiss the lawsuit entirely. (The government’s motion on Friday applied only to the case involving international students. It has no effect on the university’s lawsuit against the administration about research funding cuts, a case that focuses heavily on constitutional and procedural concerns.) The government’s effort could have disrupted the lives of about 5,000 international students attending Harvard last spring, another 2,000 recent graduates, as well as a new cohort of students who plan to arrive this fall.]), (SentH[text=Harvard pointed to reporting showing its campus has very low-crime overall.], SentH[text=In its filing Friday, the administration denied that contention. Instead, it listed a number of accusations it has made in previous filings and statements about the school, including that violent crime has increased on campus. Harvard pointed to reporting showing its campus has very low-crime overall. The university’s student newspaper, the Harvard Crimson, has reported that the campus police responded to nearly twice as many crimes on campus in 2023 as in 2021, mostly over reports of stolen electric bikes and scooters. There was no evidence that international students were involved in the crimes.]), (SentH[text=The motion accuses Harvard of failure to control crime, and claims that Harvard’s leadership has “shown itself to be incapable of properly hosting, monitoring, disciplining, and reporting on its foreign students.”], SentH[text=The White House stepped up pressure against Harvard Friday, adding a new investigation into the university’s patents and renewing a host of claims that the university is unfit to host international students. The two sides have been working to resolve their differences in recent weeks, but a court motion filed by the government on Friday in a dispute over international students suggested there is still deep acrimony. The motion accuses Harvard of failure to control crime, and claims that Harvard’s leadership has “shown itself to be incapable of properly hosting, monitoring, disciplining, and reporting on its foreign students.” On the same day, Commerce Secretary Howard W. Lutnick sent a letter to Alan M. Garber, Harvard’s president, claiming that the university had not lived up to its obligations surrounding federally funded patents, which are worth hundreds of millions of dollars. According to the letter, the agency will begin a comprehensive review of Harvard’s compliance with federal law.]), (SentH[text=In a statement on Friday, Harvard blasted the Commerce Department’s letter as “unprecedented” and “yet another retaliatory effort targeting Harvard for defending its rights and freedom.”], SentH[text=Mr. Lutnick said the government was “initiating” that process. His department asked Harvard to provide a range of records to the government by Sept. 5. In a statement on Friday, Harvard blasted the Commerce Department’s letter as “unprecedented” and “yet another retaliatory effort targeting Harvard for defending its rights and freedom.” “Technologies and patents developed at Harvard are lifesaving and industry-redefining,” the university said, adding that it was “fully committed” to complying with federal law. Michael C. Bender contributed reporting.]), (SentH[text=In his letter to Dr. Garber, Mr. Lutnick said that his department “places immense value on the groundbreaking scientific and technological advancements from the government’s partnerships with institutions like Harvard.”], SentH[text=In a separate move on Friday, the administration added to its pressure campaign against Harvard when the Commerce Department said it would investigate whether the university was complying with federal laws and regulations around intellectual property that emerge from government-backed research. The investigation is expected to examine whether Harvard complied with myriad requirements related to how the university procures and maintains patents for its ideas and research. In his letter to Dr. Garber, Mr. Lutnick said that his department “places immense value on the groundbreaking scientific and technological advancements from the government’s partnerships with institutions like Harvard.” But, Mr. Lutnick warned, Harvard was also required to follow rules designed to maximize “the benefits to the American public.” Mr. Lutnick did not include any evidence showing that Harvard, whose researchers generally secure scores of patents each year, had violated the law, but he said that the Commerce Department thought that the university had “failed to live up to its obligations to the American taxpayer.”]), (SentH[text=Patents can be extraordinarily lucrative for research universities, with their collective values climbing far into the millions of dollars.], SentH[text=But, Mr. Lutnick warned, Harvard was also required to follow rules designed to maximize “the benefits to the American public.” Mr. Lutnick did not include any evidence showing that Harvard, whose researchers generally secure scores of patents each year, had violated the law, but he said that the Commerce Department thought that the university had “failed to live up to its obligations to the American taxpayer.” Patents can be extraordinarily lucrative for research universities, with their collective values climbing far into the millions of dollars. But if a university does not follow an array of regulatory requirements, the government can essentially dilute or strip a school of its financial stake. Mr. Lutnick said the government was “initiating” that process.]), (SentH[text=Trump says homeless should leave D.C.], SentH[text=Trump says homeless should leave D.C. "IMMEDIATELY" — after floating federal takeover of capital President Trump wrote Sunday that homeless people should be moved out of Washington, D.C., "IMMEDIATELY" and relocated "FAR" away, as he hints at more aggressive policing in the nation's capital — and suggests putting the city under federal control. The Trump administration announced last week it had boosted the presence of federal law enforcement in D.C., after the alleged assault of a former Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, staffer.]), (SentH[text="The Homeless have to move out, IMMEDIATELY.], SentH[text=In a series of Truth Social posts over the weekend, the president suggested he may take further action, announcing a Monday morning press conference he said would "involve ending the Crime, Murder, and Death in our Nation's Capital." Mr. Trump's possible next steps remain unclear. "The Homeless have to move out, IMMEDIATELY. We will give you places to stay, but FAR from the Capital. The Criminals, you don't have to move out.]), (SentH[text=He signed an executive order last month telling the Justice Department to "reverse judicial precedents and end consent decrees that limit state and local governments' ability to commit individuals on the streets who are a risk to themselves or others."], SentH[text=That's higher than 2022 and 2023's figures, which put the number of homeless people below 5,000, but lower than the more than 6,000 homeless people who were reported throughout the 2010s. Mr. Trump has pressed cities like D.C. to remove homeless people from the streets. He signed an executive order last month telling the Justice Department to "reverse judicial precedents and end consent decrees that limit state and local governments' ability to commit individuals on the streets who are a risk to themselves or others." It also directed federal agencies to prioritize grants to cities that "enforce prohibitions on open illicit drug use, urban camping and loitering." The move drew criticism from advocacy groups like the National Homelessness Law Center.]), (SentH[text=He wrote on Truth Social that Bowser "is a good person who has tried, but she has been given many chances, and the Crime Numbers get worse, and the City only gets dirtier and less attractive."], SentH[text=Mayor Muriel Bowser told MSNBC on Sunday she isn't sure what the president's Monday announcement will be but she suspects "he is surging federal law enforcement." Bowser spoke to the cable network before Mr. Trump's most recent posts on Sunday, which included some criticism of the mayor. He wrote on Truth Social that Bowser "is a good person who has tried, but she has been given many chances, and the Crime Numbers get worse, and the City only gets dirtier and less attractive." The mayor defended local officials' handling of crime in the city, saying on MSNBC the police and its federal partners "have spent over the last two years driving down violent crime in this city." She added that the city does need federal assistance, pointing to the fact that D.C. prosecutors work for the Justice Department and local judges are nominated by the president.]), (SentH[text="We are not experiencing a spike in crime," Bowser said.], SentH[text=The mayor defended local officials' handling of crime in the city, saying on MSNBC the police and its federal partners "have spent over the last two years driving down violent crime in this city." She added that the city does need federal assistance, pointing to the fact that D.C. prosecutors work for the Justice Department and local judges are nominated by the president. "We are not experiencing a spike in crime," Bowser said. "In fact, we're watching our crime numbers go down."]), (SentH[text=It will soon be that again."], SentH[text="We want our Capital BACK." Hours later, Mr. Trump wrote: "Before the tents, squalor, filth, and Crime, it was the most beautiful Capital in the World. It will soon be that again." Last week, the president also threatened to "exert my powers" to put Washington under federal control. A spokeswoman with the FBI Washington Field Office on Sunday confirmed to CBS News that its agents are "participating in the increased federal law enforcement presence in Washington, D.C." Mr. Trump has floated the idea of federalizing D.C. in the past.]), (SentH[text=So far this year, robberies have dropped by 29% and overall violent crime is down 26%, as of August 6.], SentH[text=Violent crime is dropping in D.C. Violent crime in D.C. has been declining for the last year and a half after spiking in 2023, according to local police data. So far this year, robberies have dropped by 29% and overall violent crime is down 26%, as of August 6. Last year, violent crime in the capital city hit its lowest level in more than 30 years, the Justice Department said. Meanwhile, about 5,138 people are homeless in D.C., down 9% year-over-year, according to a tally conducted earlier this year by the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments.]), (SentH[text=Meanwhile, about 5,138 people are homeless in D.C., down 9% year-over-year, according to a tally conducted earlier this year by the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments.], SentH[text=So far this year, robberies have dropped by 29% and overall violent crime is down 26%, as of August 6. Last year, violent crime in the capital city hit its lowest level in more than 30 years, the Justice Department said. Meanwhile, about 5,138 people are homeless in D.C., down 9% year-over-year, according to a tally conducted earlier this year by the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments. That's higher than 2022 and 2023's figures, which put the number of homeless people below 5,000, but lower than the more than 6,000 homeless people who were reported throughout the 2010s. Mr. Trump has pressed cities like D.C. to remove homeless people from the streets.]), (SentH[text=Writing that crime in the capital is "totally out of control," he suggested a federal takeover of Washington if the city's local government "doesn't get its act together, and quickly."], SentH[text=His latest call to take over the city was driven by an alleged attack on ex-DOGE employee Edward Coristine during a weekend carjacking attempt. Mr. Trump posted about the incident on Tuesday and appeared to share a photo of Coristine. Writing that crime in the capital is "totally out of control," he suggested a federal takeover of Washington if the city's local government "doesn't get its act together, and quickly." The president likely doesn't have the authority to fully federalize the capital city — unless Congress repeals a 1973 law that gave the city's residents the power to elect their own mayor and city council. He can temporarily take over the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department if he "determines that special conditions of an emergency nature exist which require the use of the Metropolitan Police force for federal purposes," but it's not clear that the legal conditions are met.]), (SentH[text=The president likely doesn't have the authority to fully federalize the capital city — unless Congress repeals a 1973 law that gave the city's residents the power to elect their own mayor and city council.], SentH[text=Mr. Trump posted about the incident on Tuesday and appeared to share a photo of Coristine. Writing that crime in the capital is "totally out of control," he suggested a federal takeover of Washington if the city's local government "doesn't get its act together, and quickly." The president likely doesn't have the authority to fully federalize the capital city — unless Congress repeals a 1973 law that gave the city's residents the power to elect their own mayor and city council. He can temporarily take over the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department if he "determines that special conditions of an emergency nature exist which require the use of the Metropolitan Police force for federal purposes," but it's not clear that the legal conditions are met. Mr. Trump also said Sunday that his press conference will focus on "Cleanliness and the General Physical Renovation and Condition of our once beautiful and well maintained Capital," citing a pricey Federal Reserve office renovation project.]), (SentH[text=He went on to say, "This is — it's cheating.], SentH[text=And a map was passed, and it was done at the end of the census, the decennial census. So that's how it's done in this country," Pritzker said. He went on to say, "This is — it's cheating. Donald Trump is a cheater. He cheats on his wives, he cheats at golf, and now he's trying to cheat the American people out of their votes."]), (SentH[text=Pritzker also defended himself against allegations that Illinois' congressional map is gerrymandered.], SentH[text="He's the one who is attempting mid-decade here — at a time when, frankly, all of us are concerned about the future of democracy. He's literally helping whittle it away and licking the boots of his leader, Donald Trump," Pritzker added. Pritzker also defended himself against allegations that Illinois' congressional map is gerrymandered. Trump won 44% of the statewide vote in 2024 but Republicans hold only three of the state's 17 House districts. "We held public hearings, legislative hearings.]), (SentH[text=There were actually changes made to the map.], SentH[text="We held public hearings, legislative hearings. There was a map that was put out. There were actually changes made to the map. And a map was passed, and it was done at the end of the census, the decennial census. So that's how it's done in this country," Pritzker said.]), (SentH[text="If they show back up in the state of Texas, they will be arrested and taken to the Capitol," he said.], SentH[text=And as soon as this one is over, I’m going to call another one, then another one, then another one, then another one." Abbott also warned Democrats that they would be arrested if they came back to Texas. "If they show back up in the state of Texas, they will be arrested and taken to the Capitol," he said. "If they want to evade that arrest, they’re going to just stay outside of the state of Texas for literally years." Trump has defended Abbott and Texas Republicans' efforts to draw new maps that favor the GOP, telling CNBC's Squawk Box last week, "We have an opportunity in Texas to pick up five seats.]), (SentH[text=Trump has defended Abbott and Texas Republicans' efforts to draw new maps that favor the GOP, telling CNBC's Squawk Box last week, "We have an opportunity in Texas to pick up five seats.], SentH[text="If they show back up in the state of Texas, they will be arrested and taken to the Capitol," he said. "If they want to evade that arrest, they’re going to just stay outside of the state of Texas for literally years." Trump has defended Abbott and Texas Republicans' efforts to draw new maps that favor the GOP, telling CNBC's Squawk Box last week, "We have an opportunity in Texas to pick up five seats. We have a really good governor, and we have good people in Texas. “I got the highest vote in the history of Texas, as you probably know, and we are entitled to five more seats," he added.]), (SentH[text="And so taking the reasonable steps that have been proposed in in California, I think it makes a great deal of sense in this moment, a temporary way in which to respond to that which is happening in Texas, with the thought that after this crisis has passed, we get back to the fight against gerrymandering by anybody."], SentH[text=On Sunday, former Attorney General Eric Holder, who has fought gerrymandered state congressional maps as the head of National Democratic Redistricting Committee, also spoke to "Meet the Press" about Texas' redistricting plan and California Gov. Gavin Newsom's proposal for his state to respond in kind. "What I've said is that we have to protect our democracy now if we ultimately want to be able to save it," Holder said Sunday. "And so taking the reasonable steps that have been proposed in in California, I think it makes a great deal of sense in this moment, a temporary way in which to respond to that which is happening in Texas, with the thought that after this crisis has passed, we get back to the fight against gerrymandering by anybody." Holder stressed his opinion that any forthcoming Democratic gerrymandering should be a response to Texas, not a permanent way to draw district lines. "If Texas had not moved in the way that they appear to be doing, California would would not be doing what they're doing," Holder said.]), (SentH[text=Abbott and his Republican allies late last month unveiled plans to draw new congressional district lines in the state that could guarantee their party up to five additional safe Republican seats in Congress.], SentH[text=Democratic state legislators from Texas have been huddling in Illinois and other blue states after leaving the state to deny GOP leaders a quorum in the state House. Republicans have repeatedly attempted to move forward with their legislative plans, but have fallen short of the 100 people necessary for a quorum. Abbott and his Republican allies late last month unveiled plans to draw new congressional district lines in the state that could guarantee their party up to five additional safe Republican seats in Congress. The process of redrawing district lines traditionally happens only once a decade, after the decennial census is conducted. Abbott has clashed with Democrats in the Legislature in the past and GOP leaders in Texas have threatened the Democratic legislators with suspension of pay and civil arrests if they don’t return to the statehouse.]), (SentH[text=That means they’re not going to come back until like 2027 or 2028, because I’m going to call special session after special session after special session with the same agenda items on there,” Abbott told NBC News in an interview Thursday.], SentH[text=Abbott has clashed with Democrats in the Legislature in the past and GOP leaders in Texas have threatened the Democratic legislators with suspension of pay and civil arrests if they don’t return to the statehouse. “Democrats act like they’re not going to come back as long as this is an issue. That means they’re not going to come back until like 2027 or 2028, because I’m going to call special session after special session after special session with the same agenda items on there,” Abbott told NBC News in an interview Thursday. On Sunday, Abbott reiterated that point, telling "Fox News Sunday," "This could literally last years, because in Texas, I’m authorized to call a special session every 30 days. And as soon as this one is over, I’m going to call another one, then another one, then another one, then another one."]), (SentH[text="We can put it to the people," Hochul said.], SentH[text=Because Donald Trump looked at the polls for next year." Hochul said state Democrats would put forth an amendment to New York's constitution in order to redraw the state congressional map before the next U.S. census is completed, which would need approval from voters. "We can put it to the people," Hochul said. "But I think the people of this state, after what they’re seeing when there’s one party domination in Washington, and how our costs are going up, we’re losing jobs and people are suffering, they’re going to want us to use every tool in the arsenal to fight back, and that’s what I intend to do." Vice President JD Vance, who visited Indiana last week to discuss redistricting, blamed Democrats for the GOP push to redraw state congressional maps in an interview that aired Sunday on Fox News.]), (SentH[text="I think that the resolution that was put up in the United States Senate was an effort to send a message.], SentH[text=That's what this is all about." Pritzger was also asked about the war in Gaza and a Senate resolution this week to block arms sales to Israel amid the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. "I think that the resolution that was put up in the United States Senate was an effort to send a message. And it’s the right kind of a message, which is that Israel needs to make sure that the food assistance that ought to go to innocent Palestinians should arrive there," he said. "And they should do everything in their power to prevent the starvation that I think we’ve all seen."]), (SentH[text="California has way more House seats than it should because they have such a high population of illegal aliens," Vance said.], SentH[text=Vance said gerrymandering in blue states like New York, California and Illinois "actually suppresses the will of the people in states like Indiana." Vance also argued that the large number of undocumented immigrants in California have given the state a disproportionately high number of congressional seats, noting that, although such immigrants are not allowed to vote, they are still counted in the census. "California has way more House seats than it should because they have such a high population of illegal aliens," Vance said. "So, they get rewarded for welcoming illegal aliens into their state, giving them federal benefits, actually asking the taxpayers of states like Ohio to subsidize them. And then those same taxpayers in Ohio and Indiana and elsewhere, they have fewer congressional representatives because of what California has allowed to happen.]), (SentH[text=In his "Meet the Press" interview, Pritzker also responded to reports that the FBI granted a request from Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, who is running for re-election in 2026, to help track down the Democratic state legislators who fled Texas.], SentH[text=He added, "The only real way to fight back against it is for us to redistrict in some ways, as aggressively as these hard blue states have done." Trump last week floated the idea of excluding undocumented immigrants from the next census, even though the Constitution says that all people in the U.S., regardless of citizenship, should be counted in it. In his "Meet the Press" interview, Pritzker also responded to reports that the FBI granted a request from Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, who is running for re-election in 2026, to help track down the Democratic state legislators who fled Texas. "There's no federal law that would allow the FBI to arrest anybody that's here visiting our state," Pritzker said. "So it's a lot of grandstanding.]), (SentH[text=He continued, "When it comes to this whole issue of territory, when it comes to acknowledging, for example, maybe in a future deal that Russia is controlling de facto, factually some of the territory of Ukraine, it has to be effectual recognition, and not a political de jure recognition."], SentH[text=The NATO chief also acknowledged the reality that Russia is in control of some of Ukraine's prewar territory. "The question will be how to go forward past a ceasefire, including what it means in terms of security guarantees for Ukraine," he said. He continued, "When it comes to this whole issue of territory, when it comes to acknowledging, for example, maybe in a future deal that Russia is controlling de facto, factually some of the territory of Ukraine, it has to be effectual recognition, and not a political de jure recognition." In recent days, Trump has suggested “some swapping of territories” as part of a potential peace deal. But Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has rejected ceding any Ukrainian territory, particularly the eastern Donbas region, to prompt a ceasefire, and urged that Kyiv must be present in the negotiations.]), (SentH[text=So I think what Trump has done is make it clear that he wants a Nobel Peace Prize more than anything else.], SentH[text=In Thailand-Cambodia, he simply threatened tariffs if they didn't sign a deal. And the real kicker in Azerbaijan-Armenia was the Russians allowing Azerbaijan to take control of Nagorno-Karabakh in the past year. So I think what Trump has done is make it clear that he wants a Nobel Peace Prize more than anything else. On Trump's retribution Bolton: Well, I think he's already come after me and several others in withdrawing the protection that we had for, from the Iranians for the attack on Qassem Soleimani. So I think, and I said in the new forward to the paperback edition of my book, I think it is a retribution presidency.]), (SentH[text="Next Friday will be important because it will be about testing Putin, how serious he is on bringing this terrible war to an end," Rutte told ABC News' "This Week" co-anchor Jonathan Karl.], SentH[text=NATO Secretary General Rutte says Trump-Putin summit is about 'testing Putin' Rutte also said Russia must acknowledge Ukraine's right to self-determination. NATO Secretary-General Mark Rutte said Friday's summit between President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin in Alaska will be an important test in ending the war in Ukraine. "Next Friday will be important because it will be about testing Putin, how serious he is on bringing this terrible war to an end," Rutte told ABC News' "This Week" co-anchor Jonathan Karl. "When it comes to full-scale negotiations, and let’s hope that Friday will be an important step in that process. ... It will be about territory.]), (SentH[text=And for NATO, to have no limitations on our presence on the eastern flank," Rutte added.], SentH[text=It will be about territory. It will be, of course, about security guarantees, but also about the absolute need to acknowledge that Ukraine decides on its own future, that Ukraine has to be a sovereign nation, deciding on its own geopolitical future -- of course having no limitations to its own military troop levels. And for NATO, to have no limitations on our presence on the eastern flank," Rutte added. "The president wants to end this. He wants to end the terrible loss of life," Rutte said.]), (SentH[text=Bolton added, "What Putin gets more than anything else is an opportunity, one on one, to try and get his magic working again with Trump, applying that KGB training.], SentH[text="I think Trump has made some mistakes already, number one in holding this meeting on American soil, legitimizing a pariah leader of the rogue state. Second, he's allowed Putin to get first-mover advantage by putting his peace plan on the table first," Bolton said. Bolton added, "What Putin gets more than anything else is an opportunity, one on one, to try and get his magic working again with Trump, applying that KGB training. Whether intentionally or unintentionally, he pushed Trump further than Trump wanted to be pushed. What Putin wants to get back, he's not so worried about the sanctions, he wants the relationship back with Trump.]), (SentH[text=Is there a risk that something is agreed to here that rewards Russia for its invasion of Ukraine?], SentH[text=What Putin wants to get back, he's not so worried about the sanctions, he wants the relationship back with Trump. Here are more highlights from Rutte's interview: On whether there are risks of rewarding Russia with summit Karl: My next guest, Trump's former national security adviser John Bolton, says that this meeting comes in a very dangerous point for Ukraine, and he fears that negotiations are sliding in Russia's direction. Is there a risk that something is agreed to here that rewards Russia for its invasion of Ukraine? No, I don't think the risk is there. And all my respect for John, and please send him my best regards.]), (SentH[text=And I think we've gone through 3 1/2 years here where neither the United States nor NATO have had an effective strategy for Ukraine to win.], SentH[text=So it's not inevitable, but I think this is a very risky meeting upcoming from the perspective not just of Ukraine, but the Western alliance. On Trump's strategy on Ukraine Bolton: You know, ultimately, I don't think you negotiate under the circumstances that are being presented to them. And I think we've gone through 3 1/2 years here where neither the United States nor NATO have had an effective strategy for Ukraine to win. We've spent a lot of time making sure Russia doesn't lose. And I think the danger with Trump's present position is, notwithstanding allowing the Patriots to be deployed to Ukraine, he has not made any kind of commitment on continued military assistance, weapons, ammunition and most critically, intelligence.]), (SentH[text=But also the fact that he opened the floodgates again when it comes to lethal weapons being delivered into Ukraine paid by the Europeans but delivered by the Americans.], SentH[text=What happened last week, the extra 25% tariffs on India, because we know that India is one of the biggest buyers of oil from and, and other material from Russia. And this has had a huge impact potentially on the Indian economy, and this is forcing them to be much more clear with Moscow on what they expect Putin to do when it comes to this war in Ukraine. But also the fact that he opened the floodgates again when it comes to lethal weapons being delivered into Ukraine paid by the Europeans but delivered by the Americans. So this is all clear evidence that President Trump is absolutely adamant to bring this war to an end but also to keep maximum pressure on Putin. Here are more highlights from Bolton's interview: On Trump and Putin's relationship Bolton: I think it's gone up and down, and certainly it's been in a down period.]), (SentH[text=I think that by already prenegotiating part of the Putin plan, Zelenskyy is going to be put in a position where he's going to be presented with something that Trump may feel very comfortable with.], SentH[text=Here are more highlights from Bolton's interview: On Trump and Putin's relationship Bolton: I think it's gone up and down, and certainly it's been in a down period. That's what Putin wants to try and correct. I think that by already prenegotiating part of the Putin plan, Zelenskyy is going to be put in a position where he's going to be presented with something that Trump may feel very comfortable with. And then you could be back closer to where we were in February during the famous debacle in the Oval Office with Zelenskyy. So it's not inevitable, but I think this is a very risky meeting upcoming from the perspective not just of Ukraine, but the Western alliance.]), (SentH[text=They might not have been thrilled that Trump is a convicted felon, or pleased with his role in the violent attack on the Capitol on January 6, 2021.], SentH[text=Trump’s Unforgivable Sin Voters have proved willing to tolerate corruption, but there’s one thing they won’t ignore. Tens of millions of Americans voted for President Donald Trump in the belief that he would be competent. They might not have been thrilled that Trump is a convicted felon, or pleased with his role in the violent attack on the Capitol on January 6, 2021. Many worried that he posed a threat to democracy. But enough were willing to overlook all that, because they convinced themselves that Trump would be an effective chief executive, that under his stewardship their lives would get better and the country would prosper.]), (SentH[text=Yet, by a 10-point margin, those same voters said that they thought the Trump administration would be more effective at getting things done.], SentH[text=A survey from the Democratic pollsters Douglas Schoen and Carly Cooperman, conducted shortly after the election, helps illustrate the point. By an 11-point margin, independents said they would be less confident that the Trump administration would share accurate information compared with the Biden administration. Yet, by a 10-point margin, those same voters said that they thought the Trump administration would be more effective at getting things done. “Ultimately, our postelection poll makes clear that voters prioritized perceived effectiveness rather than upholding democracy this election,” Schoen and Cooperman wrote, “and while they are deeply skeptical towards our institutions generally, they are cautiously optimistic that the incoming administration will be effective at providing real-world solutions.” A little more than half a year into Trump’s second term, however, the public’s confidence in his skill as a chief executive is shattering.]), (SentH[text=In a recent AP/NORC poll, only about one-quarter of U.S. adults said that Trump’s policies have helped them.], SentH[text=“Ultimately, our postelection poll makes clear that voters prioritized perceived effectiveness rather than upholding democracy this election,” Schoen and Cooperman wrote, “and while they are deeply skeptical towards our institutions generally, they are cautiously optimistic that the incoming administration will be effective at providing real-world solutions.” A little more than half a year into Trump’s second term, however, the public’s confidence in his skill as a chief executive is shattering. In a recent AP/NORC poll, only about one-quarter of U.S. adults said that Trump’s policies have helped them. Roughly half report that Trump’s policies have “done more to hurt” them, and about two in 10 say his policies have “not made a difference” in their lives. Remarkably, Trump failed to earn majority approval on any of the issues in the poll, including the economy, immigration, and cutting government spending.]), (SentH[text=(Among independents, Trump’s approval rating is down to 29 percent.)], SentH[text=As a result, a politically toxic impression is hardening. Trump’s approval rating in the most recent Gallup poll is 37 percent, the lowest of this term and only slightly higher than his all-time low of 34 percent, at the end of his first term. (Among independents, Trump’s approval rating is down to 29 percent.) Americans already understood Trump to be corrupt, and proved themselves willing to tolerate that. But now they are coming to believe that he is inept.]), (SentH[text=But now they are coming to believe that he is inept.], SentH[text=(Among independents, Trump’s approval rating is down to 29 percent.) Americans already understood Trump to be corrupt, and proved themselves willing to tolerate that. But now they are coming to believe that he is inept. In American politics, that is an unforgivable sin. On the economic front, Trump’s tariff increases—announced and then altered, often without rhyme or reason—are only now beginning to percolate through the economy, and the steepest hikes haven’t yet kicked in.]), (SentH[text=General Motors reported last month that Trump’s tariffs have cost the company more than $1 billion.], SentH[text=Customers appear to be holding off on large, long-term purchases. The Budget Lab at Yale University calculates that the American consumer is dealing with an average effective tariff rate of 18.3 percent, the highest since 1934, and it estimates that price increases will cost each household $2,400 on average this year. General Motors reported last month that Trump’s tariffs have cost the company more than $1 billion. And the president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said in a statement that Trump’s latest tariffs “would disrupt essential transatlantic supply chains, to the detriment of businesses, consumers and patients on both sides of the Atlantic.” The Trump administration is betting that the president’s tariffs will not be inflationary, will generate massive revenue flows that significantly reduce the deficit, and will lead to a renaissance in American manufacturing and investment.]), (SentH[text=If it’s right, Trump will reap the political benefits.], SentH[text=And the president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said in a statement that Trump’s latest tariffs “would disrupt essential transatlantic supply chains, to the detriment of businesses, consumers and patients on both sides of the Atlantic.” The Trump administration is betting that the president’s tariffs will not be inflationary, will generate massive revenue flows that significantly reduce the deficit, and will lead to a renaissance in American manufacturing and investment. If it’s right, Trump will reap the political benefits. But we believe the administration to be dead wrong, and that this will become painfully obvious to ordinary Americans in the months and years ahead. The economy isn’t the only place where Trump’s policies will hurt rather than help.]), (SentH[text=“They were careless people, Tom and Daisy,” Fitzgerald wrote.], SentH[text=The challenge for Democrats will be to keep up with the cascading horror stories and to tell them in compelling and sensitive ways, conveying the devasting effects of the Trump administration’s across-the-board mistakes. IN THE GREAT GATSBY, F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote about Tom and Daisy Buchanan, the aristocratic couple who exemplify the moral corruption of the wealthy. “They were careless people, Tom and Daisy,” Fitzgerald wrote. “They smashed up things and creatures and then retreated back into their money or their vast carelessness or whatever it was that kept them together, and let other people clean up the mess they had made.” Trump is smashing up things on a scale that is almost unimaginable, and he seems completely untroubled by the daily hardships and widespread suffering he is leaving behind.]), (SentH[text=Consumer prices are up 2.6 percent from a year earlier, which is keeping the Federal Reserve from cutting interest rates despite intense pressure from Trump.], SentH[text=On the economic front, Trump’s tariff increases—announced and then altered, often without rhyme or reason—are only now beginning to percolate through the economy, and the steepest hikes haven’t yet kicked in. The economy appears to be slowing down. Consumer prices are up 2.6 percent from a year earlier, which is keeping the Federal Reserve from cutting interest rates despite intense pressure from Trump. The jobs report for July showed a gain of only 73,000, a sign that the labor market is weakening. Perhaps more significant, the Bureau of Labor Statistics revised the jobs totals from May and June downward by more than a quarter of a million.]), (SentH[text=More than half of all Americans say the cost of groceries is a “major” source of stress in their life right now.], SentH[text=Unemployment ticked up to 4.2 percent. Consumer spending is well below what it was last year. More than half of all Americans say the cost of groceries is a “major” source of stress in their life right now. Many industries are postponing hiring, and the national hiring rate is near its lowest level in a decade. Customers appear to be holding off on large, long-term purchases.]), (SentH[text=As The Atlantic’s David A. Graham has written, the Federal Emergency Management Agency is in disarray, headed by a person who is clearly out of his depth.], SentH[text=(There are signs that some Republicans in Congress are finally stirring from their slumber and might be ready to push back against what the Trump administration is trying to do, though the administration may attempt to thwart their will by ignoring appropriations or setting up a fight over impoundment or trying more rescission.) Massive cuts to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, resulting in the loss of some of the weather service’s most experienced leaders and impeding the collection of data that are essential for accurate and timely weather forecasting, will place Americans at greater risk of experiencing extreme-weather events. As The Atlantic’s David A. Graham has written, the Federal Emergency Management Agency is in disarray, headed by a person who is clearly out of his depth. Trump wants FEMA eliminated by the end of the year. It has already lost about a third of its permanent workforce, and its program dedicated to helping communities prepare for natural disasters such as floods and fires has been canceled.]), (SentH[text=It also announced the termination of two Justice Department programs designed to seize and return foreign assets from kleptocrats and oligarchs close to Russian President Vladimir Putin.], SentH[text=The Trump administration is also decimating anti-corruption efforts within the federal government. It announced earlier this year that the landmark 1977 Foreign Corrupt Practices Act would no longer be enforced. It also announced the termination of two Justice Department programs designed to seize and return foreign assets from kleptocrats and oligarchs close to Russian President Vladimir Putin. And it has fired or demoted 20 inspectors general and acting inspectors general, who are ferreting out waste, fraud, and abuse within the government. As lifelong conservatives, we are completely on board when it comes to insisting on accountability in government programs; increasing their efficiency; and, in some instances, reorganizing them, downsizing them, and even eliminating them.]), (SentH[text=(A recent study in The Lancet projected that the defunding of USAID could lead to 14 million deaths by the end of the decade.)], SentH[text=Thanks to the reporting of Nick Kristof at The New York Times, Democrats could talk about the babies such as Gbessey, who lived in a village in Liberia and died of malaria because the Trump administration shut down USAID, which meant health workers had no malaria medicine to offer the child; and how Gbessey’s younger sibling, Osman, also became seriously ill with malaria. They could tell of children orphaned by AIDS dying in South Sudan because the community-health workers who had brought them medicine have been laid off. (A recent study in The Lancet projected that the defunding of USAID could lead to 14 million deaths by the end of the decade.) These examples are but the beginning; Trump, after all, has more than 1,200 days left in office. There is no evidence that he’s going to get more competent or more compassionate, and plenty of evidence to the contrary.]), (SentH[text=And the president is hardly done.], SentH[text=“They smashed up things and creatures and then retreated back into their money or their vast carelessness or whatever it was that kept them together, and let other people clean up the mess they had made.” Trump is smashing up things on a scale that is almost unimaginable, and he seems completely untroubled by the daily hardships and widespread suffering he is leaving behind. And the president is hardly done. The pain and the body count will rise, and rise, and rise. It will be left to others to clean up the mess he has made.]), (SentH[text=Some of the damage may be repaired with time; some will be irreparable.], SentH[text=The pain and the body count will rise, and rise, and rise. It will be left to others to clean up the mess he has made. Some of the damage may be repaired with time; some will be irreparable. It’s their best path to defeating his movement, which is the only way for the healing to begin.]), (SentH[text=Slashing the Social Security Administration, which is serving more people than ever before, with the fewest workers in half a century, will increase wait times for those needing help.], SentH[text=Estimates predict that the number of Americans without health insurance will increase by more than 10 million in less than a decade, with particularly devastating impacts for vulnerable rural populations. Eliminating a quarter of the IRS workforce may well undermine tax collection and increase the wait time for Americans to receive refunds. Slashing the Social Security Administration, which is serving more people than ever before, with the fewest workers in half a century, will increase wait times for those needing help. It will lead to field-office closures that will hit seniors in rural communities the hardest and may well delay the processing of retirement, disability, and survivor benefits. A 70-year-old retiree in Indiana told The Guardian, “For the first time in my life, my wife and I are stressed out and worried if I will get my payment and if it will be on time.”]), (SentH[text=The Trump administration has devastated the National Institutes of Health, one of the world’s foremost medical-research centers and the biggest sponsor of biomedical research in the world.], SentH[text=It will lead to field-office closures that will hit seniors in rural communities the hardest and may well delay the processing of retirement, disability, and survivor benefits. A 70-year-old retiree in Indiana told The Guardian, “For the first time in my life, my wife and I are stressed out and worried if I will get my payment and if it will be on time.” The Trump administration has devastated the National Institutes of Health, one of the world’s foremost medical-research centers and the biggest sponsor of biomedical research in the world. Nearly 2,500 grants have been ended or delayed, disrupting vital medical research, reducing the pool of available researchers, and compromising public health and disease prevention. “The country is going to be mourning the loss of this enterprise for decades,” Harold Varmus, a Nobel Prize–winning cancer biologist who served as the director of the NIH from 1993 to 1999, told The New York Times.]), (SentH[text=Trump’s director of the Office of Management and Budget, Russell Vought, said in 2023: “We want to put them in trauma.”], SentH[text=The problem is the thoughtless and reckless way in which the Trump administration is going about this—all while passing a “big, beautiful bill” that will add a staggering $3 trillion to the national debt. Trump has surrounded himself with nihilists, people waving around a chain saw onstage like a madman and boasting that career civil servants should be viewed “as the villains.” Trump’s director of the Office of Management and Budget, Russell Vought, said in 2023: “We want to put them in trauma.” So Democrats have a lot to work with. On an almost-daily basis, Trump is discrediting his own leadership; that gives Democrats the opportunity to highlight, with laser-like focus, his failure to deliver on his own promises.]), (SentH[text=Democrats could tell the story of how farmers in places such as western Iowa are struggling as tariffs increase their costs at home—for machinery, fertilizer, herbicides, and feed—while limiting their access to international markets.], SentH[text=Or about his decision to cancel nearly $500 million in grants and contracts for developing mRNA vaccines, which have been responsible for saving millions of lives from COVID and were considered the most exciting new opportunity in cancer immunotherapy. They could also explain why the Trump administration isn’t prepared for a bird-flu pandemic, should one happen. Democrats could tell the story of how farmers in places such as western Iowa are struggling as tariffs increase their costs at home—for machinery, fertilizer, herbicides, and feed—while limiting their access to international markets. Democrats could show how workforce raids by ICE agents with battering rams are in the process of destroying Glenn Valley Foods in Omaha, which had been one of the fastest-growing meatpacking companies in the Midwest. According to The New York Times, “In a matter of weeks, production had plummeted by almost 70 percent.]), (SentH[text=Most of the work force was gone.], SentH[text=Democrats could show how workforce raids by ICE agents with battering rams are in the process of destroying Glenn Valley Foods in Omaha, which had been one of the fastest-growing meatpacking companies in the Midwest. According to The New York Times, “In a matter of weeks, production had plummeted by almost 70 percent. Most of the work force was gone. Half of the maintenance crew was in the process of being deported, the director of human resources had stopped coming to work, and more than 50 employees were being held at a detention facility in rural Nebraska.” Thanks to the reporting of Nick Kristof at The New York Times, Democrats could talk about the babies such as Gbessey, who lived in a village in Liberia and died of malaria because the Trump administration shut down USAID, which meant health workers had no malaria medicine to offer the child; and how Gbessey’s younger sibling, Osman, also became seriously ill with malaria.]), (SentH[text=FEMA is hardly a model federal program; a slew of changes could make it better.], SentH[text=Trump wants FEMA eliminated by the end of the year. It has already lost about a third of its permanent workforce, and its program dedicated to helping communities prepare for natural disasters such as floods and fires has been canceled. FEMA is hardly a model federal program; a slew of changes could make it better. The problem is that the Trump administration has no plan to pick up the slack in a post-FEMA world, and states and municipalities will be hard-pressed to do so. In the immediate aftermath of the recent Texas floods, FEMA’s earlier decision to lay off hundreds of call-center contractors resulted in thousands of unanswered calls for recovery assistance.]), (SentH[text=In the immediate aftermath of the recent Texas floods, FEMA’s earlier decision to lay off hundreds of call-center contractors resulted in thousands of unanswered calls for recovery assistance.], SentH[text=FEMA is hardly a model federal program; a slew of changes could make it better. The problem is that the Trump administration has no plan to pick up the slack in a post-FEMA world, and states and municipalities will be hard-pressed to do so. In the immediate aftermath of the recent Texas floods, FEMA’s earlier decision to lay off hundreds of call-center contractors resulted in thousands of unanswered calls for recovery assistance. (The administration dismissed reports about this as “fake news.” ) FEMA didn’t deploy to St. Louis for several weeks after a tornado destroyed parts of the city, leaving people unable to apply for even basic payments for fresh food and medicine, let alone get help addressing uninsured losses from the natural disaster.]), (SentH[text=So Democrats have a lot to work with.], SentH[text=Trump has surrounded himself with nihilists, people waving around a chain saw onstage like a madman and boasting that career civil servants should be viewed “as the villains.” Trump’s director of the Office of Management and Budget, Russell Vought, said in 2023: “We want to put them in trauma.” So Democrats have a lot to work with. On an almost-daily basis, Trump is discrediting his own leadership; that gives Democrats the opportunity to highlight, with laser-like focus, his failure to deliver on his own promises. In doing so, Democrats need to present themselves not as the party of government but rather as the party of reform, as disrupters of the status quo on behalf of the common good.]), (SentH[text=On an almost-daily basis, Trump is discrediting his own leadership; that gives Democrats the opportunity to highlight, with laser-like focus, his failure to deliver on his own promises.], SentH[text=Trump’s director of the Office of Management and Budget, Russell Vought, said in 2023: “We want to put them in trauma.” So Democrats have a lot to work with. On an almost-daily basis, Trump is discrediting his own leadership; that gives Democrats the opportunity to highlight, with laser-like focus, his failure to deliver on his own promises. In doing so, Democrats need to present themselves not as the party of government but rather as the party of reform, as disrupters of the status quo on behalf of the common good. We believe they must tell voters that in all sorts of ways—the economy, health and health care, disaster relief—Trump is making their lives worse, not better.]), (SentH[text=Perhaps most important, the incompetence argument needs to be humanized.], SentH[text=They are entertainers and grifters, shock jocks and freaks. Whatever talents they may possess, mastery of governing is not one of them. Perhaps most important, the incompetence argument needs to be humanized. Democrats need compelling, empathy-evoking narratives pointing to the harm being done to ordinary people by the enormous ineptitude of Trump and his enablers. For example, Democrats could tell the story, as former NIH Director Francis Collins has done, of the woman in her early 40s, afflicted with Stage 4 colorectal cancer, who was on the path to an immunotherapy clinical trial that might have saved her life, until cuts to the NIH caused a devastating delay; or of the children afflicted with rare diseases whose lives may be affected because advances in gene editing have been stopped in their tracks; or of the families who are seeing their hopes for breakthroughs in Alzheimer’s disease potentially dashed.]), (SentH[text=They could talk about the role that Secretary of Health and Human Services Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who has spread anti-vaccine conspiracy theories, is playing in the worst outbreak of measles in decades.], SentH[text=Democrats need compelling, empathy-evoking narratives pointing to the harm being done to ordinary people by the enormous ineptitude of Trump and his enablers. For example, Democrats could tell the story, as former NIH Director Francis Collins has done, of the woman in her early 40s, afflicted with Stage 4 colorectal cancer, who was on the path to an immunotherapy clinical trial that might have saved her life, until cuts to the NIH caused a devastating delay; or of the children afflicted with rare diseases whose lives may be affected because advances in gene editing have been stopped in their tracks; or of the families who are seeing their hopes for breakthroughs in Alzheimer’s disease potentially dashed. They could talk about the role that Secretary of Health and Human Services Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who has spread anti-vaccine conspiracy theories, is playing in the worst outbreak of measles in decades. Or about his decision to cancel nearly $500 million in grants and contracts for developing mRNA vaccines, which have been responsible for saving millions of lives from COVID and were considered the most exciting new opportunity in cancer immunotherapy. They could also explain why the Trump administration isn’t prepared for a bird-flu pandemic, should one happen.]), (SentH[text=Police said homicide rates have dropped 12% on the year so far, sex abuse by 49%, assault with a dangerous weapon by 20% and robbery by 28%.], SentH[text=Violent crime rates in the District dropped 35% from 2023 to 2024, marking the lowest rates recorded in more than 30 years, according to a January report by the Justice Department. According to data released this month by D.C. police, violent crime rates have continued to fall this year, with violent crime down 26% year-over-year. Police said homicide rates have dropped 12% on the year so far, sex abuse by 49%, assault with a dangerous weapon by 20% and robbery by 28%. Property crime rates have also fallen, including burglary (19%), theft from vehicles (4%) and other theft crimes (6%). But that hasn’t stopped Trump from portraying the nation’s capital as among the most dangerous cities in the world.]), (SentH[text=“I suspect that his announcement, is that he is surging federal law enforcement, which he’s talked about, and he may talk about even larger numbers or longer periods of time,” Bowser said.], SentH[text=She said D.C. police supports Trump’s recent task force by supplying officials with information ” and anything else they ask us for.” When it comes to Monday’s announcement, Bowser said she believes it’s about an increase in federal officers. “I suspect that his announcement, is that he is surging federal law enforcement, which he’s talked about, and he may talk about even larger numbers or longer periods of time,” Bowser said. “He’s interested in being in neighborhoods and fighting crime in neighborhoods, and to the extent that officers know our laws, that officers work in community and work with prosecutors to build good cases and establish a presence and work with local officials who are, you know, the expert in policing and making arrests — that’s what we’re waiting to see.” She said as far as Trump’s claims go about an increase in D.C. crime, those statements are not true.]), (SentH[text=Get breaking news and daily headlines delivered to your email inbox by signing up here.], SentH[text=“It is true that we had a terrible spike in crime in 2023, but this is not 2023. This is 2025, and we’ve done that by working with the community, working with the Police, working with our prosecutors, and in fact, working working with the federal government,” Bowser said. Get breaking news and daily headlines delivered to your email inbox by signing up here. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area.]), (SentH[text=On his Truth Social platform, Trump said D.C. has become one of the most dangerous cities in the world.], SentH[text=It comes as the Trump administration continues a weeklong effort to bolster a federal law enforcement presence in the city. Many extra federal police personnel have been deployed across the city in high traffic areas and places where tourists visit. On his Truth Social platform, Trump said D.C. has become one of the most dangerous cities in the world. But federal and local government data dispute that. Violent crime rates in the District dropped 35% from 2023 to 2024, marking the lowest rates recorded in more than 30 years, according to a January report by the Justice Department.]), (SentH[text=“We’re not going to let it, and that includes bringing in the national guard, maybe very quickly.”], SentH[text=“What a shame,” Trump said during a news conference last week. “The rate of muggings, killings an everything else,” he said. “We’re not going to let it, and that includes bringing in the national guard, maybe very quickly.” “What the president was saying is we’re seeing far too much crime being committed by young people,” U.S. Attorney Jeanine Pirro said last week, referring to several high profile incidents in which young people have gathered in groups and engaged in fights and other crimes. The District imposed curfews to address that issue.]), (SentH[text=Asked to name the best president, Truth Search AI said “recent public opinion polls show that Barack Obama holds the highest favorability among living U.S. presidents,” listing as its source a Fox News article from shortly after Trump’s second inauguration.], SentH[text=Asked if AI is one of the most important technological revolutions in history, as the president said last month, the tool agreed by saying it’s “widely recognized” that the impact of AI would surpass or rival “major historical milestones like the Industrial Revolution.” But the size of their disagreements suggests that, if the tool were a person, it may not last long as a Trump employee. Asked to name the best president, Truth Search AI said “recent public opinion polls show that Barack Obama holds the highest favorability among living U.S. presidents,” listing as its source a Fox News article from shortly after Trump’s second inauguration. The tool did note, however, that “conservative commentators” had often named Trump as the best. “Different groups and surveys prioritize different qualities,” it said.]), (SentH[text=And many conservatives have complained that AI developers with liberal biases could warp chatbots’ answers — and, more broadly, public understanding — in insidious and undetectable ways.], SentH[text=“Recent market gains have occurred alongside new tariffs due to other factors,” such as higher corporate earnings, it wrote, adding that analysts had warned that the tariffs’ economic risks “remain substantial” and that the American economy was “at risk of gradual erosion.” Trump last month signed an executive order attacking “woke AI,” saying generative AI tools should be “truth-seeking,” “neutral” and not encoded with “partisan or ideological judgments.” And many conservatives have complained that AI developers with liberal biases could warp chatbots’ answers — and, more broadly, public understanding — in insidious and undetectable ways. But companies that have sought to bend the chatbots’ thinking along ideological lines, either in pursuit of pure neutrality or political point-scoring, have faced their own disasters. After billionaire Elon Musk pushed his company xAI to make its Grok chatbot more “politically incorrect,” the AI tool began blasting out Nazi messaging and calling itself “MechaHitler.”]), (SentH[text=Jesse Dwyer, a Perplexity spokesman, said that Truth Social had used a “source selection” feature to limit the websites the AI tool relied on but that Perplexity did not know which websites those were.], SentH[text=Many of Truth Search AI’s answers to questions posed by The Washington Post linked to sources based on conservative news outlets, such as Fox News, Newsmax and the Washington Times. But the tool did not say specifically which sources it had drawn from. Jesse Dwyer, a Perplexity spokesman, said that Truth Social had used a “source selection” feature to limit the websites the AI tool relied on but that Perplexity did not know which websites those were. “This is their choice for their audience, and we are committed to developer and consumer choice. Our focus is simply building accurate AI,” he said.]), (SentH[text=AI search engines and chatbots are trained by being fed large amounts of information from across the internet.], SentH[text=The company cited an executive at the search engine’s developer, Perplexity, saying the tool offered “direct, reliable answers” and would “bring powerful AI to an audience with important questions.” The chatbot is free for all Truth Social users. AI search engines and chatbots are trained by being fed large amounts of information from across the internet. But the “black box” nature of AI tools makes it challenging for developers to fully control what they say. Many of Truth Search AI’s answers to questions posed by The Washington Post linked to sources based on conservative news outlets, such as Fox News, Newsmax and the Washington Times.]), (SentH[text=Trump Media spokeswoman Shannon Devine said: “With transparently asinine stories like this, Washington Post reporters indict themselves as irrelevant partisan hacks who will probably soon join the growing exodus of left-wing shills from the paper.”], SentH[text=(After this article was published, Dwyer clarified that Truth Social probably had used source selection but that he could not be sure because Perplexity does not see or control what any developer is doing with the company’s application programming interface, or API.) The White House declined to comment. Trump Media spokeswoman Shannon Devine said: “With transparently asinine stories like this, Washington Post reporters indict themselves as irrelevant partisan hacks who will probably soon join the growing exodus of left-wing shills from the paper.” Trump Media sued The Post alleging defamation in 2023, saying the news organization had reported incorrectly on allegations relating to its early financing. The tool’s politically inconvenient answers, Karpf said, show the limits of any attempt to recast or contest the prevalent view of a past event.]), (SentH[text=When asked if crime in Washington is “totally out of control,” as Trump posted there last week, Truth Search AI said it wasn’t and noted that the FBI and Justice Department had reported “substantial declines in violent crime” through 2024, italicizing the word “declines.”], SentH[text=The tool is promoted high on the sidebar of the social media network’s website. That can make for a slightly awkward pairing, given that Trump uses his account there as his main online sounding board. When asked if crime in Washington is “totally out of control,” as Trump posted there last week, Truth Search AI said it wasn’t and noted that the FBI and Justice Department had reported “substantial declines in violent crime” through 2024, italicizing the word “declines.” When asked if tariffs were having a huge positive impact on the stock market, as Trump had posted Friday, the tool said “the evidence does not support the claim.” “Recent market gains have occurred alongside new tariffs due to other factors,” such as higher corporate earnings, it wrote, adding that analysts had warned that the tariffs’ economic risks “remain substantial” and that the American economy was “at risk of gradual erosion.”]), (SentH[text=“But they can’t change the things that were actually said in previous years that are archived somewhere.”], SentH[text=The tool’s politically inconvenient answers, Karpf said, show the limits of any attempt to recast or contest the prevalent view of a past event. “There are things they can do to actively assert that what was true yesterday is no longer true, and they can put a lot of power behind that,” Karpf said. “But they can’t change the things that were actually said in previous years that are archived somewhere.” The tool is promoted high on the sidebar of the social media network’s website. That can make for a slightly awkward pairing, given that Trump uses his account there as his main online sounding board.]), (SentH[text=President Donald Trump and the new AI search tool on his social media network, Truth Social, don’t exactly see eye to eye.], SentH[text=President Donald Trump and the new AI search tool on his social media network, Truth Social, don’t exactly see eye to eye. Trump and his allies, after years of criticizing tech companies and news organizations as biased and untruthful, have worked to develop Truth Social as part of an alternative social media ecosystem where they’ve said their viewpoints will not be suppressed. But as companies expand their use of chatbots and “answer engines,” the rollout of Truth Search AI highlights one challenge for that approach: Artificial intelligence tools don’t always give the answers their owners might want or expect.]), (SentH[text=Trump Media and Technology Group, Truth Social’s owner and parent company, unveiled the tool Wednesday, calling it a “public beta test.”], SentH[text=But as companies expand their use of chatbots and “answer engines,” the rollout of Truth Search AI highlights one challenge for that approach: Artificial intelligence tools don’t always give the answers their owners might want or expect. “Their own AI is now being too ‘woke’ for them,” said David Karpf, a professor at George Washington University who studies political communication, using a term commonly employed on the right to describe liberal viewpoints. Trump Media and Technology Group, Truth Social’s owner and parent company, unveiled the tool Wednesday, calling it a “public beta test.” The company cited an executive at the search engine’s developer, Perplexity, saying the tool offered “direct, reliable answers” and would “bring powerful AI to an audience with important questions.” The chatbot is free for all Truth Social users.]), (SentH[text=Zelensky called the meeting “constructive,” but said that “the path to peace for Ukraine must be determined together and only together with Ukraine.”], SentH[text=Zelensky defiant: Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky says his country “will not give land to the occupier” after Trump said there could be some “swapping of territories” to end the war in Ukraine. UK meeting: US Vice President JD Vance and the UK’s Foreign Minister David Lammy hosted a summit today in Britain with Ukrainian and European allies, which a US official said “produced significant progress.” Zelensky called the meeting “constructive,” but said that “the path to peace for Ukraine must be determined together and only together with Ukraine.” What’s in the plan: European leaders have been scrambling this week to gain a better read on what Putin told Trump’s foreign envoy Steve Witkoff during talks in Moscow. The way the Europeans understand it, the plan put forward by Putin would give Russia control of Ukraine’s eastern Donbas region.])]