[(SentH[text=The flooding has directly impacted southern Wisconsin, including the Milwaukee metropolitan area.], SentH[text=Around 14 million people from Kansas to Wisconsin are under flood alerts this weekend as rounds of heavy rain continue to cause severe flash flooding across the Midwest, forcing the Wisconsin State Fair to cancel many of its events. The flooding has directly impacted southern Wisconsin, including the Milwaukee metropolitan area. On Saturday evening, 24 preliminary storm reports came in for the Upper Midwest, including 80 to 90 mph wind gusts in the Omaha area. Some of the highest rainfall totals in the past 24 hours were in the Milwaukee area, where west of the city recorded 8 to 11 inches of rain.]), (SentH[text="An area of storms is moving into far southeastern WI, with additional heavy rainfall possible through 1 PM," the weather service said.], SentH[text=As of Sunday morning, the Milwaukee River is reaching major flood stage level, which means a surge of at least 9 feet, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. "Widespread steady rains" were impacting the Milwaukee metropolitan area late Sunday morning, according to the National Weather Service's field office in Milwaukee. "An area of storms is moving into far southeastern WI, with additional heavy rainfall possible through 1 PM," the weather service said. "Storms are moving quick, but are producing 1-2”/hr rainfall rates. Additional Flash Flood Warnings are possible."]), (SentH[text=Kaiser and his family were trying to avoid the floods by leaving town, when floodwaters started rushing in.], SentH[text=Another video showed cars trapped in deep flood waters at the Wisconsin State Fair. Loren Kaiser, who has lived in his Wauwatosa house for 20 years, showed an NBC News crew the damage left behind at his home. Kaiser and his family were trying to avoid the floods by leaving town, when floodwaters started rushing in. "We had the car loaded up and we just decided to try and make a run for it," he said. "The water just came in and everything in the garage started to float."]), (SentH[text=As of Sunday evening, over 31,000 utility customers were without power in Wisconsin, according to Poweroutage.], SentH[text=You know that we have to look out for one another." A Milwaukee Brewers vs. New York Mets game scheduled for Sunday afternoon at the Milwaukee's American Family Field proceeded as planned, but half of the parking lots were inaccessible as a result of this weekend's weather, according to a statement from the team. As of Sunday evening, over 31,000 utility customers were without power in Wisconsin, according to Poweroutage. Almost 13,000 are without power in Nebraska.]), (SentH[text=Damaging wind gusts may also accompany the heavy rainfall across the Midwest.], SentH[text=Additional flash flooding is possible, especially in these vulnerable areas affected by Saturday night’s flooding. Flood alerts from Kansas to Wisconsin will remain in effect into Monday, as 1 to 6 inches of rain will be possible. Damaging wind gusts may also accompany the heavy rainfall across the Midwest. Sunday’s severe weather risk will be focused over the High Plains, where 4 million are under a Slight Risk, including Denver, Colorado Springs and Dodge City, Kansas. Storms in this region will be capable of 60+ mph wind gusts, large hail and a tornado or two.]), (SentH[text="We understand the disappointment you may feel as our team works all year for these 11 days," the statement, posted to Facebook, read.], SentH[text=Wisconsin State Fair Park, where the state's fair is held, was forced to close early on Saturday due to flooding. The state fair announced on Sunday that it will not reopen for the day's events. "We understand the disappointment you may feel as our team works all year for these 11 days," the statement, posted to Facebook, read. "However, the safety of our Fairgoers, team, partners, and vendors will always be our top priority." An additional round of thunderstorms is expected to impact the Midwest again on Sunday, with a very large cluster of heavy rain moving across Iowa, Missouri, Wisconsin and Illinois.]), (SentH[text="We know how much time, training, and anticipation you’ve invested in this event, and we share your disappointment," USA Triathlon said in a statement.], SentH[text="It will take little rain to get more flash flooding in this area, making this a dangerous situation across west-northwest MKE metro," the weather service said. The USA Triathlon announced that the sprint and paratriathlon nationals scheduled to be held on Sunday have been canceled due to "the combination of potential water conditions, flooding and course damage throughout the course, limited emergency response teams to support the event, as well as impending weather for Sunday." "We know how much time, training, and anticipation you’ve invested in this event, and we share your disappointment," USA Triathlon said in a statement. "This was not the outcome any of us wanted. We will follow up soon with more details about next steps, including deferral and credit options."]), (SentH[text=The incidents include multiple fires and around 65 water rescues.], SentH[text=Fire departments in Waukesha County, which includes parts of Milwaukee, were conducting rescues of people trapped in floodwaters on Sunday. The Milwaukee Fire Department has responded to about 614 "emergency assignments" from 8 p.m. Saturday night to 7 a.m. Sunday morning, Chief Aaron Lipski said during a news briefing Sunday afternoon. The incidents include multiple fires and around 65 water rescues. Lipski reminded the public not to attempt to drive through floodwaters. "This is how we have hundreds of vehicles around the city blocking intersections, making progress absolutely impossible," he said.]), (SentH[text="We're going to need, possibly, some federal assistance," Crowley said during Sunday's briefing, adding that the Wisconsin will declare a state of emergency next in order to secure federal aid.], SentH[text=Milwaukee County Executive David Crowley declared a state of emergency in the county as a result of flooding across the region. In a statement, Crowley said his top priority is the life and safety of the county's residents. "We're going to need, possibly, some federal assistance," Crowley said during Sunday's briefing, adding that the Wisconsin will declare a state of emergency next in order to secure federal aid. Crowley reminded residents to prioritize their safety amid the weekend's weather. "We want folks to know that we're all in this together," he said.]), (SentH[text=Flood alerts from Kansas to Wisconsin will remain in effect into Monday, as 1 to 6 inches of rain will be possible.], SentH[text=Various flood warnings were in place Sunday morning across eastern Iowa and west of Milwaukee. Additional flash flooding is possible, especially in these vulnerable areas affected by Saturday night’s flooding. Flood alerts from Kansas to Wisconsin will remain in effect into Monday, as 1 to 6 inches of rain will be possible. Damaging wind gusts may also accompany the heavy rainfall across the Midwest. Sunday’s severe weather risk will be focused over the High Plains, where 4 million are under a Slight Risk, including Denver, Colorado Springs and Dodge City, Kansas.]), (SentH[text=Additional flash flooding is possible, especially in these vulnerable areas affected by Saturday night’s flooding.], SentH[text=An additional round of thunderstorms is expected to impact the Midwest again on Sunday, with a very large cluster of heavy rain moving across Iowa, Missouri, Wisconsin and Illinois. Various flood warnings were in place Sunday morning across eastern Iowa and west of Milwaukee. Additional flash flooding is possible, especially in these vulnerable areas affected by Saturday night’s flooding. Flood alerts from Kansas to Wisconsin will remain in effect into Monday, as 1 to 6 inches of rain will be possible. Damaging wind gusts may also accompany the heavy rainfall across the Midwest.]), (SentH[text=Transfers homepage | Done deals | Men's grades | Women's grades TOP STORIES Sources: Chelsea in talks for Man Utd's Garnacho Sources: Timbers' Moreno set to join Fluminense De Gea:], SentH[text=Napoli have joined Everton in the race for Jack Grealish, while Dominic Calvert-Lewin is doing all he can to sign for Manchester United. Join us for the latest transfer news, rumors and gossip from around the globe. Transfers homepage | Done deals | Men's grades | Women's grades TOP STORIES Sources: Chelsea in talks for Man Utd's Garnacho Sources: Timbers' Moreno set to join Fluminense De Gea: No hard feelings after Man United exit TRENDING RUMORS With Giacomo Raspadori heading to Atlético Madrid, Gazzetta dello Sport has reported that Napoli are aiming to sign Manchester City winger Jack Grealish. That said, the 29-year-old's salary of around €15 million is too much for Gli Azzurri so they are also looking at Liverpool's Federico Chiesa, Shakhtar Donetsk's Kevin and RB Leipzig's Antonio Nusa.]), (SentH[text=(Foot Mercato) Cagliari have started negotiations with Fiorentina midfielder Antonin Barak in an attempt to see off competition from Hellas Verona.], SentH[text=Matthis Abline is growing frustrated as the Ligue 1 club rebuff interest from Wolves, Eintracht Frankfurt, Paris FC and Marseille. (L'Équipe) Marseille's Jonathan Rowe is one of the wingers being monitored by Stade Rennais. (Foot Mercato) Cagliari have started negotiations with Fiorentina midfielder Antonin Barak in an attempt to see off competition from Hellas Verona. (Calciomecarto) Antwerp center back Zeno van den Bosch is one step away from joining Borussia Monchengladbach on a contract that will last until 2030. Several MLS clubs are seriously interested in Inter Miami goalkeeper Drake Callender and advanced talks have taken place.]), (SentH[text=It seems more likely that Grealish stays in the Premier League with Everton ramping up their efforts to secure a loan and they aren't put off by the idea of paying most of his wages.], SentH[text=No hard feelings after Man United exit TRENDING RUMORS With Giacomo Raspadori heading to Atlético Madrid, Gazzetta dello Sport has reported that Napoli are aiming to sign Manchester City winger Jack Grealish. That said, the 29-year-old's salary of around €15 million is too much for Gli Azzurri so they are also looking at Liverpool's Federico Chiesa, Shakhtar Donetsk's Kevin and RB Leipzig's Antonio Nusa. It seems more likely that Grealish stays in the Premier League with Everton ramping up their efforts to secure a loan and they aren't put off by the idea of paying most of his wages. Free-agent striker Dominic Calvert-Lewin has sacked his agent and will do his own negotiations in a bid to earn a contract with Manchester United, according to The Sun. The 28-year-old, who left Everton after the expiration of his contract at the end of June, has in previous seasons been linked with a big-money move to Old Trafford.]), (SentH[text=However, after Benjamin Sesko signed for Man United on Saturday there would be no space in the United squad for Calvert-Lewin.], SentH[text=Free-agent striker Dominic Calvert-Lewin has sacked his agent and will do his own negotiations in a bid to earn a contract with Manchester United, according to The Sun. The 28-year-old, who left Everton after the expiration of his contract at the end of June, has in previous seasons been linked with a big-money move to Old Trafford. However, after Benjamin Sesko signed for Man United on Saturday there would be no space in the United squad for Calvert-Lewin. But if Joshua Zirkzee or Rasmus Højlund were to move on, Calvert-Lewin would become a value option. Napoli have reignited their interest in AC Milan and United States midfielder Yunus Musah, as reported by Corriere dello Sport.]), (SentH[text=This comes after conversations about a €14 million to €15 million move for Juventus midfielder Fabio Miretti had cooled.], SentH[text=But if Joshua Zirkzee or Rasmus Højlund were to move on, Calvert-Lewin would become a value option. Napoli have reignited their interest in AC Milan and United States midfielder Yunus Musah, as reported by Corriere dello Sport. This comes after conversations about a €14 million to €15 million move for Juventus midfielder Fabio Miretti had cooled. Napoli came close to signing Musah for €25 million near the start of the window but withdrew and are now looking at him again. Nottingham Forest are interested in the 22-year-old and willing to pay €30 million but he would prefer to stay in Italy.]), (SentH[text=Read Iñigo Martinez has joined Al Nassr as a free agent after terminating his contract with Barcelona by mutual consent.], SentH[text=Read Paris Saint-Germain have signed Lille goalkeeper Lucas Chevalier on a five-year contract. It leaves Gianluigi Donnarumma, who played a key role in PSG's history-making season last year, to find a new club this summer. Read Iñigo Martinez has joined Al Nassr as a free agent after terminating his contract with Barcelona by mutual consent. Read EXPERT TAKE Check out the latest Premier League news, including Chelsea's Levi Colwill undergoing ACL surgery. OTHER RUMORS Fermin Lopez has no interest in leaving Barcelona amid interest from Chelsea and Manchester United.]), (SentH[text=(Diario Sport) Liverpool are interested in Nathan Collins but Brentford are unlikely to let the center back leave.], SentH[text=Read EXPERT TAKE Check out the latest Premier League news, including Chelsea's Levi Colwill undergoing ACL surgery. OTHER RUMORS Fermin Lopez has no interest in leaving Barcelona amid interest from Chelsea and Manchester United. (Diario Sport) Liverpool are interested in Nathan Collins but Brentford are unlikely to let the center back leave. Newcastle United have set their sights on Chelsea striker Nicolas Jackson after losing out on Benjamin Sesko to Manchester United. (Football Insider) Liverpool could let Harvey Elliott leave for £40 million if a clause to re-sign the midfielder is included, with Tottenham Hotspur keen to make a move.]), (SentH[text=(Gazzetta dello Sport) AFC Bournemouth are looking at Sevilla's Loic Bade, Bologna's Jhon Lucumi, Fiorentina's Pietro Comuzzo, Internazionale's Yann Bisseck and Genoa's Koni De Winter as possible replacements for PSG-bound Ilya Zabarnyi.], SentH[text=(Football Insider) Fabio Miretti, Nico Gonzalez, Douglas Luiz, Dusan Vlahovic, Weston McKennie and Nicolo Savona are among the players who could leave Juventus before the window closes. This comes as the Bianconeri are close to reaching a deal with Paris Saint-Germain for Randal Kolo Muani. (Gazzetta dello Sport) AFC Bournemouth are looking at Sevilla's Loic Bade, Bologna's Jhon Lucumi, Fiorentina's Pietro Comuzzo, Internazionale's Yann Bisseck and Genoa's Koni De Winter as possible replacements for PSG-bound Ilya Zabarnyi. Bayer Leverkusen are also working to sign Loic Bade, with discussions underway about a €25 million to €30 million deal and a contract that would run until 2030. Roma like Fabio Silva but Wolves won't accept anything under €25 million for the striker, who also has interest from Borussia Dortmund, Real Sociedad, RB Leipzig and Eintracht Frankfurt.]), (SentH[text=Bayer Leverkusen are also working to sign Loic Bade, with discussions underway about a €25 million to €30 million deal and a contract that would run until 2030.], SentH[text=This comes as the Bianconeri are close to reaching a deal with Paris Saint-Germain for Randal Kolo Muani. (Gazzetta dello Sport) AFC Bournemouth are looking at Sevilla's Loic Bade, Bologna's Jhon Lucumi, Fiorentina's Pietro Comuzzo, Internazionale's Yann Bisseck and Genoa's Koni De Winter as possible replacements for PSG-bound Ilya Zabarnyi. Bayer Leverkusen are also working to sign Loic Bade, with discussions underway about a €25 million to €30 million deal and a contract that would run until 2030. Roma like Fabio Silva but Wolves won't accept anything under €25 million for the striker, who also has interest from Borussia Dortmund, Real Sociedad, RB Leipzig and Eintracht Frankfurt. (Calciomercato) Roma could rival Napoli for Benfica's Florentino as the dream signing for their midfield but also will face competition from Premier League clubs.]), (SentH[text=Milan could also look at Chelsea's Trevoh Chalobah, Renato Veiga and Axel Disasi.], SentH[text=AC Milan could move quickly to sign Genoa center back Koni De Winter ahead of Internazionale while aiming to avoid an escalating valuation, as reported by Gazzetta dello Sport. This comes with the Rossoneri needing a center back as Malick Thiaw heads to Newcastle United. Milan could also look at Chelsea's Trevoh Chalobah, Renato Veiga and Axel Disasi. There are complicated negotiations with Arsenal, who want €35 million for Jakub Kiwior, and Nottingham Forest's Nikola Milenkovic would be an option but difficult to sign. CONFIRMED DEALS Liverpool striker Darwin Núñez has completed a €53 million ($62m) move to Saudi Pro League side Al Hilal.]), (SentH[text=There are complicated negotiations with Arsenal, who want €35 million for Jakub Kiwior, and Nottingham Forest's Nikola Milenkovic would be an option but difficult to sign.], SentH[text=This comes with the Rossoneri needing a center back as Malick Thiaw heads to Newcastle United. Milan could also look at Chelsea's Trevoh Chalobah, Renato Veiga and Axel Disasi. There are complicated negotiations with Arsenal, who want €35 million for Jakub Kiwior, and Nottingham Forest's Nikola Milenkovic would be an option but difficult to sign. CONFIRMED DEALS Liverpool striker Darwin Núñez has completed a €53 million ($62m) move to Saudi Pro League side Al Hilal. Read Paris Saint-Germain have signed Lille goalkeeper Lucas Chevalier on a five-year contract.]), (SentH[text=From Redfield I went to Milbank and then on to the Capital Journal in Pierre.], SentH[text=and I had a keen interest in learning about writing and presenting the news. The lessons I learned in Redfield stuck with me my entire professional life. From Redfield I went to Milbank and then on to the Capital Journal in Pierre. After stops as a writer for Game, Fish and Parks and University Relations at SDSU, my wife and I retired in Brookings. In retirement, one of the first freelance jobs I had was filling in as the editor at the Enterprise in Flandreau.]), (SentH[text=More and more often, people in the journalism business talk about “news deserts,” those places that have no newspapers or other local news coverage.], SentH[text=A 2018 edition of the Brookings Register. (Courtesy of the South Dakota NewsMedia Association) More and more often, people in the journalism business talk about “news deserts,” those places that have no newspapers or other local news coverage. I always felt sorry for those places. Journalists and people who care about the news were stunned Wednesday when News Media Corp. announced it was closing its newspapers, including four in South Dakota: the Huron Daily Plainsman, The Brookings Register, The Redfield Press and the Moody County Enterprise in Flandreau.]), (SentH[text=Company’s sudden shutdown closes four newspapers in eastern South Dakota I was raised in Huron.], SentH[text=The sudden closing of those newspapers will make life tougher for subscribers and advertisers, not to mention the employees who are out of work. It’s tough news for me because I have a connection to all four papers. Company’s sudden shutdown closes four newspapers in eastern South Dakota I was raised in Huron. The Plainsman was my hometown paper, not that I paid much attention to it. My love of newspapers was developed later in life.]), (SentH[text=The evening of Aug. 6, when the internet was roiling with news of the closures, I heard from a Brookings businessman who was incensed at the turn of events.], SentH[text=I’d hate to think that I’m the common denominator as to why these four newspapers closed. It’s more likely that the cause is some sort of corporate mismanagement as anyone could look at the Register or the Enterprise and see that they have plenty of advertising to support their woefully small staffs. The evening of Aug. 6, when the internet was roiling with news of the closures, I heard from a Brookings businessman who was incensed at the turn of events. He was an occasional subscriber to the Register. He spends his advertising dollars in the competing shopper.]), (SentH[text=AP and Getty images may not be republished.], SentH[text=Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics.]), (SentH[text=It was there that I fell in love with newspapering.], SentH[text=Bless her heart, sometimes those editorials would be reprinted in the Plainsman. My newspaper career started at The Brookings Register where I spent five years selling advertising. It was there that I fell in love with newspapering. I made three attempts to move from the sales department to the newsroom. The third time seemed like the charm.]), (SentH[text=As a rookie editor, it was heady stuff for me when she would slip one of my editorials onto the publisher’s desk to show off what her son-in-law was up to.], SentH[text=The Huronite, as old-timers have been known to call it, didn’t really get on my radar until my mother-in-law started working there as the secretary to the publisher. At the time, I was the editor of the Milbank Herald Advance. As a rookie editor, it was heady stuff for me when she would slip one of my editorials onto the publisher’s desk to show off what her son-in-law was up to. Bless her heart, sometimes those editorials would be reprinted in the Plainsman. My newspaper career started at The Brookings Register where I spent five years selling advertising.]), (SentH[text=The Plainsman was my hometown paper, not that I paid much attention to it.], SentH[text=It’s tough news for me because I have a connection to all four papers. Company’s sudden shutdown closes four newspapers in eastern South Dakota I was raised in Huron. The Plainsman was my hometown paper, not that I paid much attention to it. My love of newspapers was developed later in life. The Huronite, as old-timers have been known to call it, didn’t really get on my radar until my mother-in-law started working there as the secretary to the publisher.]), (SentH[text=Invest your advertising dollars in the publication that’s watching out for your best interests by reporting the news.], SentH[text=These closures bring home the fact that the vital job of journalism has to be sustained by the communities that are served by newspapers. Certainly you should subscribe, but there’s more that you can do. Invest your advertising dollars in the publication that’s watching out for your best interests by reporting the news. Frequent the advertisers in the newspaper, telling them that you saw their ad in the local newspaper. The template for bringing news back to these four communities has already been created.]), (SentH[text=There’s no reason to believe that the same formula won’t work in Brookings, Huron, Redfield or Flandreau.], SentH[text=The template for bringing news back to these four communities has already been created. When the Gannett newspapers in Sioux Falls, Aberdeen and Watertown turned into ghosts of their former selves with shrunken staffs and little or no local news, startup weekly newspapers stepped in to fill the news void. There’s no reason to believe that the same formula won’t work in Brookings, Huron, Redfield or Flandreau. The Dakota Scout of Sioux Falls has already announced plans to expand into Brookings and Flandreau. We can only hope that someone with more money than sense will try to fill the news voids in Huron and Redfield.]), (SentH[text=Their plan was to hire an editor and get that editor coached up on how to sell advertising.], SentH[text=While I thought my dreams of being a journalist had been crushed, the editor at the Register had other ideas. She had come to Brookings from The Redfield Press and knew that the owners there were having a tough time keeping editors. Their plan was to hire an editor and get that editor coached up on how to sell advertising. Once the editor was adept with a rate card, the owners would move on to another weekly newspaper and complete the process again. Their goal was to own a chain of weekly newspapers.]), (SentH[text=While I thought my dreams of being a journalist had been crushed, the editor at the Register had other ideas.], SentH[text=At the time, the paper was owned by Stauffer Communications. Some bean counter at the home office cut the position. While I thought my dreams of being a journalist had been crushed, the editor at the Register had other ideas. She had come to Brookings from The Redfield Press and knew that the owners there were having a tough time keeping editors. Their plan was to hire an editor and get that editor coached up on how to sell advertising.]), (SentH[text=“We have spent over the last two years driving down violent crime in this city, driving it down to a 30-year low.”], SentH[text=Trump’s repeated claims that it might be necessary to federalize law enforcement in the city to make it safe also ignores data collected by the Metropolitan police department, released in January by the federal government, which showed that violent crime in Washington DC in 2024 was down 35% from 2023 and was at the lowest level in over 30 years. “We are not experiencing a crime spike,” Washington DC’s mayor, Muriel Bowser, told MSNBC on Sunday. “We have spent over the last two years driving down violent crime in this city, driving it down to a 30-year low.” She added that Washington DC police statistics show that violent crime is down a further 26% so far this year. “Federal law enforcement is always on the street in DC, and we always work cooperatively with them” Bowser said, adding the the Washington DC national guard, which Trump has threatened to deploy, is under the control of the president.]), (SentH[text=“The Homeless have to move out, IMMEDIATELY,” Trump wrote on his Truth Social platform Sunday morning, shortly after being driven from the White House to his golf club in Virginia.], SentH[text=In a social media post on Sunday, Donald Trump demands homeless residents of Washington DC leave the country’s capital or face eviction, and again promised to use federal officers to jail criminals, even though violent crime in the city was at a 30-year low when he took office in January. “The Homeless have to move out, IMMEDIATELY,” Trump wrote on his Truth Social platform Sunday morning, shortly after being driven from the White House to his golf club in Virginia. “We will give you places to stay, but FAR from the Capital.” The post was illustrated with four photographs, all apparently taken from the president’s motorcade along the route from the White House to his golf course.]), (SentH[text=Two of the images showed a total of 10 tents pitched on the grass along a highway on-ramp just over a mile from the White House.], SentH[text=“We will give you places to stay, but FAR from the Capital.” The post was illustrated with four photographs, all apparently taken from the president’s motorcade along the route from the White House to his golf course. Two of the images showed a total of 10 tents pitched on the grass along a highway on-ramp just over a mile from the White House. The third image showed a single person sleeping on the steps of the American Institute of Pharmacy Building on Constitution Avenue. The fourth image showed the line of vehicles that whisk Trump to his golf course passing a small amount of roadside litter on the E Street Expressway, near the Kennedy Center.]), (SentH[text=Earlier this week, Trump ordered a surge of federal officers from a variety of agencies to increase patrols in Washington DC, pointing to the assault on a young federal worker who came to Washington to work with Elon Musk as evidence that the city’s police force was failing to combat violent crime.], SentH[text=She added that Washington DC police statistics show that violent crime is down a further 26% so far this year. “Federal law enforcement is always on the street in DC, and we always work cooperatively with them” Bowser said, adding the the Washington DC national guard, which Trump has threatened to deploy, is under the control of the president. Earlier this week, Trump ordered a surge of federal officers from a variety of agencies to increase patrols in Washington DC, pointing to the assault on a young federal worker who came to Washington to work with Elon Musk as evidence that the city’s police force was failing to combat violent crime. Washington DC police, however, had stopped the assault Trump focused attention on, and arrested two 15-year-old suspects at the scene. Asked by Reuters, the White House declined to explain what legal authority Trump would use to evict people from Washington.]), (SentH[text=Trump’s post promoted a previously announced news conference on Monday, which he has promised, “will, essentially, stop violent crime” in the capital district, without explaining how.], SentH[text=The third image showed a single person sleeping on the steps of the American Institute of Pharmacy Building on Constitution Avenue. The fourth image showed the line of vehicles that whisk Trump to his golf course passing a small amount of roadside litter on the E Street Expressway, near the Kennedy Center. Trump’s post promoted a previously announced news conference on Monday, which he has promised, “will, essentially, stop violent crime” in the capital district, without explaining how. In a subsequent post, he said that the news conference at 10am Monday, “will not only involve ending the Crime, Murder, and Death in our Nation’s Capital, but will also be about Cleanliness”. The Free DC movement, which advocates for self-determination, immediately scheduled a protest on Monday to coincide with Trump’s news conference.]), (SentH[text=According to the Community Partnership, which works to prevent homelessness in Washington DC, on any given night there are about 800 unsheltered persons sleeping outdoors in the city of about 700,000 people.], SentH[text=The Free DC movement, which advocates for self-determination, immediately scheduled a protest on Monday to coincide with Trump’s news conference. Despite Trump’s claims, there is no epidemic of homelessness or violent crime in the capital. According to the Community Partnership, which works to prevent homelessness in Washington DC, on any given night there are about 800 unsheltered persons sleeping outdoors in the city of about 700,000 people. A further 3,275 people use emergency shelters in Washington, and 1,065 people are in transitional housing facilities. Trump’s repeated claims that it might be necessary to federalize law enforcement in the city to make it safe also ignores data collected by the Metropolitan police department, released in January by the federal government, which showed that violent crime in Washington DC in 2024 was down 35% from 2023 and was at the lowest level in over 30 years.]), (SentH[text=The US Congress has control of the city’s budget but the DC Home Rule Act, signed into law in 1973 by Richard Nixon, gives Washington DC residents the right to elect the mayor, council members, and neighborhood commissioners to run day-to-day affairs in the district.], SentH[text=Asked by Reuters, the White House declined to explain what legal authority Trump would use to evict people from Washington. The president controls only federal land and buildings in the city. The US Congress has control of the city’s budget but the DC Home Rule Act, signed into law in 1973 by Richard Nixon, gives Washington DC residents the right to elect the mayor, council members, and neighborhood commissioners to run day-to-day affairs in the district. Trump told reporters on Wednesday that White House lawyers were “already studying” the possibility of legislation to overturn the law granting the Washington DC self-rule and imposing direct federal control of the capital. “Even if crime in D.C. weren’t at a historic low point, President Trump’s comments would be misguided and offensive to the more than 700,000 people who live permanently in the nation’s capital,” Eleanor Holmes Norton, who represents DC as a nonvoting delegate in congress said in a statement.]), (SentH[text=“D.C. residents, a majority of whom are Black and brown, are worthy and capable of governing themselves without interference from federal officials who are unaccountable to D.C.”], SentH[text=Trump told reporters on Wednesday that White House lawyers were “already studying” the possibility of legislation to overturn the law granting the Washington DC self-rule and imposing direct federal control of the capital. “Even if crime in D.C. weren’t at a historic low point, President Trump’s comments would be misguided and offensive to the more than 700,000 people who live permanently in the nation’s capital,” Eleanor Holmes Norton, who represents DC as a nonvoting delegate in congress said in a statement. “D.C. residents, a majority of whom are Black and brown, are worthy and capable of governing themselves without interference from federal officials who are unaccountable to D.C.” “The only permanent remedy that will protect D.C.’s ability to govern itself is enactment of my D.C. statehood bill into law,” the 88-year-old congresswoman added.]), (SentH[text=It also arrested eight people for other offenses including five arrests for assaults on officers.], SentH[text=The crowd chanted “shame on you” at the police. In a post on X, the police force said it had arrested 466 people for supporting a proscribed organization. It also arrested eight people for other offenses including five arrests for assaults on officers. The police said no one was seriously injured. The ban makes it a crime to be a member of Palestine Action, carrying a maximum sentence of 14 years in prison.]), (SentH[text=British lawmakers banned Palestine Action under anti-terrorism legislation in July after some of its members broke into a Royal Air Force base and damaged planes as part of a series of protests.], SentH[text=UK police arrest nearly 500 at protest for banned Palestine support group under new legislation London’s Metropolitan Police arrested more than 466 people at a protest on Saturday against Britain’s decision to ban the group Palestine Action, the force said. British lawmakers banned Palestine Action under anti-terrorism legislation in July after some of its members broke into a Royal Air Force base and damaged planes as part of a series of protests. The group accuses Britain’s government of complicity in what it says are Israeli war crimes in Gaza. Protesters, some wearing black and white Palestinian scarves and waving Palestinian flags, chanted “hands off Gaza”, and held placards with the message “I oppose genocide.]), (SentH[text=I support Palestine Action”, video taken by Reuters at the scene showed.], SentH[text=The group accuses Britain’s government of complicity in what it says are Israeli war crimes in Gaza. Protesters, some wearing black and white Palestinian scarves and waving Palestinian flags, chanted “hands off Gaza”, and held placards with the message “I oppose genocide. I support Palestine Action”, video taken by Reuters at the scene showed. Israel has faced accusations of genocide at the International Court of Justice and from human rights groups over its devastating military assault in Gaza. Israel denies the accusations and casts its offensive as self-defense after a deadly October 2023 attack by Palestinian Hamas militants.]), (SentH[text=“It is not only about sharing material possessions,” he said, “but about putting into play our abilities, our time, our affection, our presence, our empathy.”], SentH[text=Pope at Angelus: Invest the treasure of your life in love and mercy By Vatican News Addressing the faithful gathered in Saint Peter's Square for his Sunday Angelus, Pope Leo reflected on the Gospel passage from Luke, inviting the faithful to ask themselves how they are investing the “treasure” of their lives. Quoting Jesus’ words, “Sell what you own and give alms”, the Pope urged Christians not to cling to the gifts they have received from God, but to use them generously for the good of others - especially those most in need. “It is not only about sharing material possessions,” he said, “but about putting into play our abilities, our time, our affection, our presence, our empathy.” Each person, he continued, is “a unique, priceless good in God’s plan - a living, beating capital” that must be cultivated and invested, “otherwise it dries up and loses its value.” The Pope then warned the faithful that this treasure can be squandered, or even taken by those “who, like a thief, turn it into an object of consumption.”]), (SentH[text=Citing Saint Augustine, the Pope noted that while people might rejoice to exchange bronze for silver or silver for gold, “what is given” in love yields something infinitely greater: eternal life.], SentH[text=Recalling that Jesus spoke these words on His way to Jerusalem, where He would give Himself completely on the cross, Pope Leo pointed to the works of mercy as “the safest and most fruitful bank” for the treasure of our lives. Even the smallest gesture, he said, can have infinite value, as in the Gospel’s image of the poor widow who, with two small coins, becomes “the richest person in the world". Citing Saint Augustine, the Pope noted that while people might rejoice to exchange bronze for silver or silver for gold, “what is given” in love yields something infinitely greater: eternal life. “It will be changed,” Augustine explained, “because the giver will be changed.” Pope Leo then invited the faithful to see this truth in everyday life - in the mother who holds her children close, or in two people in love who feel like “a king and queen” when they are together.]), (SentH[text=Wherever we find ourselves - at home, in our parish, at school, or in the workplace - the Pope encouraged us “not to miss any opportunity to love.”], SentH[text=Pope Leo then invited the faithful to see this truth in everyday life - in the mother who holds her children close, or in two people in love who feel like “a king and queen” when they are together. “We could give many other examples,” he added. Wherever we find ourselves - at home, in our parish, at school, or in the workplace - the Pope encouraged us “not to miss any opportunity to love.” This, he said, is the vigilance Jesus asks of us: being attentive, ready, and sensitive to one another, as He is with us at every moment. Bringing his address to a close, the Pope entrusted this desire to Mary, “the Morning Star,” asking her to help all believers to be “sentinels of mercy and peace” in a divided world.]), (SentH[text=Bringing his address to a close, the Pope entrusted this desire to Mary, “the Morning Star,” asking her to help all believers to be “sentinels of mercy and peace” in a divided world.], SentH[text=Wherever we find ourselves - at home, in our parish, at school, or in the workplace - the Pope encouraged us “not to miss any opportunity to love.” This, he said, is the vigilance Jesus asks of us: being attentive, ready, and sensitive to one another, as He is with us at every moment. Bringing his address to a close, the Pope entrusted this desire to Mary, “the Morning Star,” asking her to help all believers to be “sentinels of mercy and peace” in a divided world. Thank you for reading our article. You can keep up-to-date by subscribing to our daily newsletter.]), (SentH[text=In the past few months, the administration has limited the ways in which people can seek asylum, has made the process more expensive and is now reviewing already filed claims and dismissing them if parts of the complex application are missing.], SentH[text=Now it appears that the new Trump administration is dismissing applications, effectively making people start over on a process they began years ago. This round of asylum case dismissals is the latest effort by the Trump administration to strip protections from those who have been in the U.S. for years. In the past few months, the administration has limited the ways in which people can seek asylum, has made the process more expensive and is now reviewing already filed claims and dismissing them if parts of the complex application are missing. But as officials expand the scope of whom they are arresting, detaining and deporting, lawyers fear their clients who have been waiting years for their asylum interviews may get caught up in the effort to conduct mass deportations. Asylum is a form of protection granted to those who either have already entered the U.S. or are at a port of entry, having left their home country.]), (SentH[text=That is a form of deportation for people who have been in the U.S. for less than two years.], SentH[text=You're virtually converting people that are following the normal traditional asylum rules and leaving them without a status and without protection and asking them to show their faces to ICE." Lawyers told NPR that in some cases, their clients may have been marked for "expedited removal" when they first entered the country. That is a form of deportation for people who have been in the U.S. for less than two years. When asked about the asylum application dismissals, USCIS spokesman Matthew Tragesser said that if upon reviewing an application, USCIS discovers that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) or Customs and Border Protection designated a person as in "expedited removal," USCIS administratively closes the application due to a lack of jurisdiction. "This is a long-standing practice that is not new," Tragesser said.]), (SentH[text="You are canceling employment authorization.], SentH[text=After an application is filed, applicants receive work permits, pay taxes and can enroll in school. "You're literally making documented people, again, undocumented, and they're already in here," said Michelle Marty Rivera, an immigration attorney who has dozens of clients who have received these letters. "You are canceling employment authorization. You're virtually converting people that are following the normal traditional asylum rules and leaving them without a status and without protection and asking them to show their faces to ICE." Lawyers told NPR that in some cases, their clients may have been marked for "expedited removal" when they first entered the country.]), (SentH[text="The issue is that people were already released into the U.S.], SentH[text=Lemus agrees with USCIS that the policy is not necessarily new — the credible fear interviews are the prerequisite to filing for asylum. But like other attorneys, Lemus said he has clients who have been waiting for upwards of six years for their asylum case to be reviewed. "The issue is that people were already released into the U.S. They've already established years of processing. Some of them have made investments in the U.S.," Lemus said.]), (SentH[text="They just don't want to risk it."], SentH[text=There's a lot of uncertainty that makes people afraid. It makes people not want to fight their cases, whether they're strong or not," said Florencia Garcia. "They just don't want to risk it." ICE has increased the number of arrests at immigration courts, and high-profile worksite enforcement operations have left many afraid. "You go to court — you get detained; you go to your ICE appointment — you get detained; you go to work — you get detained; you apply for asylum — you were processed incorrectly," Lemus said.]), (SentH[text="You go to court — you get detained; you go to your ICE appointment — you get detained; you go to work — you get detained; you apply for asylum — you were processed incorrectly," Lemus said.], SentH[text="They just don't want to risk it." ICE has increased the number of arrests at immigration courts, and high-profile worksite enforcement operations have left many afraid. "You go to court — you get detained; you go to your ICE appointment — you get detained; you go to work — you get detained; you apply for asylum — you were processed incorrectly," Lemus said. "You just can't do anything."]), (SentH[text=Asylum-seekers are bounced around the system There are different versions of the letters that asylum applicants received, and NPR has reviewed some of them.], SentH[text="There aren't enough asylum officers to cover the workload, but there has also been such an increase in the number of asylum applications." But now, immigration attorneys are warning that immigrants are facing the consequences of that shortage. Asylum-seekers are bounced around the system There are different versions of the letters that asylum applicants received, and NPR has reviewed some of them. Applicants began receiving them in July. The letters say that all processing of their asylum application is terminated.]), (SentH[text=In others, the letters tell them to report to ICE first and request the interview.], SentH[text=The letters say that all processing of their asylum application is terminated. In some letters, applicants are told to await a notice from ICE about when their credible fear interview will be scheduled. In others, the letters tell them to report to ICE first and request the interview. Some are not clear on next steps. Attorney Maria Florencia Garcia has one client who entered through the southern border and was originally put into expedited removal but was released into the U.S. before he received his interview.]), (SentH[text="They're just doing the process that was allotted to them that was legal and provided to them the moment that they presented themselves in the U.S.," Lemus said, noting that some of his clients have also received the letters.], SentH[text="The only way that he's going to be able to proceed is by showing up to ICE, telling them that he has a fear of return, and that will likely get him detained." Arno Lemus, another immigration attorney, sees this effort from the second Trump administration as an attempt to reclassify a certain set of asylum applicants who primarily came in during the Biden years. "They're just doing the process that was allotted to them that was legal and provided to them the moment that they presented themselves in the U.S.," Lemus said, noting that some of his clients have also received the letters. "And now the government's wanting to retroactively go back." Lemus agrees with USCIS that the policy is not necessarily new — the credible fear interviews are the prerequisite to filing for asylum.]), (SentH[text=The reason, according to the letters: These asylum-seekers, many of whom entered between 2019 and 2022, did not receive a mandatory screening, known as a "credible fear" interview, at the border.], SentH[text=Now some are told to start over The Trump administration is stripping protections of some asylum applicants who filed as far back as 2019. NPR has learned that dozens of immigrants across the U.S. have received letters in the mail notifying them that their asylum cases have been dismissed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), a branch of the Department of Homeland Security. The reason, according to the letters: These asylum-seekers, many of whom entered between 2019 and 2022, did not receive a mandatory screening, known as a "credible fear" interview, at the border. The interview is conducted by an asylum officer once someone has been detained or has arrived in the United States. It is meant as an opportunity for a person to describe any fear of persecution they may face if they are returned to their home country.]), (SentH[text=Per USCIS' process, the credible fear interview is key to pulling someone out of expedited removal prior to filing for asylum.], SentH[text=When asked about the asylum application dismissals, USCIS spokesman Matthew Tragesser said that if upon reviewing an application, USCIS discovers that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) or Customs and Border Protection designated a person as in "expedited removal," USCIS administratively closes the application due to a lack of jurisdiction. "This is a long-standing practice that is not new," Tragesser said. Per USCIS' process, the credible fear interview is key to pulling someone out of expedited removal prior to filing for asylum. "The credible fear [interview] is considered a screening tool. And essentially there's a higher standard that when someone achieves that, then they can then go through the asylum process," said Morgan Bailey, a former USCIS official who served under both Trump and Biden, adding that for the last 15 years, the agency has not been able to keep up with the number of asylum-seekers who need credible fear interviews.]), (SentH[text=It never happened," Florencia Garcia said, adding that they applied for asylum anyway because that must be filed within a year of being in the country.], SentH[text="Once he was released, they did schedule a credible fear interview, but [it] was canceled. We tried to get a reschedule for a couple of years. It never happened," Florencia Garcia said, adding that they applied for asylum anyway because that must be filed within a year of being in the country. But in recent weeks, that client got the letter notifying them of the dismissal. He's not going to be able to renew his employment authorization card," Florencia Garcia said.]), (SentH[text=He's not going to be able to renew his employment authorization card," Florencia Garcia said.], SentH[text=It never happened," Florencia Garcia said, adding that they applied for asylum anyway because that must be filed within a year of being in the country. But in recent weeks, that client got the letter notifying them of the dismissal. He's not going to be able to renew his employment authorization card," Florencia Garcia said. "The only way that he's going to be able to proceed is by showing up to ICE, telling them that he has a fear of return, and that will likely get him detained." Arno Lemus, another immigration attorney, sees this effort from the second Trump administration as an attempt to reclassify a certain set of asylum applicants who primarily came in during the Biden years.]), (SentH[text=He continued, "When it comes to this whole issue of territory, when it comes to acknowledging, for example, maybe in a future deal that Russia is controlling de facto, factually some of the territory of Ukraine, it has to be effectual recognition, and not a political de jure recognition."], SentH[text=The NATO chief also acknowledged the reality that Russia is in control of some of Ukraine's prewar territory. "The question will be how to go forward past a ceasefire, including what it means in terms of security guarantees for Ukraine," he said. He continued, "When it comes to this whole issue of territory, when it comes to acknowledging, for example, maybe in a future deal that Russia is controlling de facto, factually some of the territory of Ukraine, it has to be effectual recognition, and not a political de jure recognition." In recent days, Trump has suggested “some swapping of territories” as part of a potential peace deal. But Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has rejected ceding any Ukrainian territory, particularly the eastern Donbas region, to prompt a ceasefire, and urged that Kyiv must be present in the negotiations.]), (SentH[text=On Trump's international record Bolton: I don't think what he has done materially changes the situations in any of those circumstances or several others he's mentioned like Pakistan-India, where the Indians -- not just the government, the entire country -- were outraged that he tried to take credit for that.], SentH[text=We've spent a lot of time making sure Russia doesn't lose. And I think the danger with Trump's present position is, notwithstanding allowing the Patriots to be deployed to Ukraine, he has not made any kind of commitment on continued military assistance, weapons, ammunition and most critically, intelligence. On Trump's international record Bolton: I don't think what he has done materially changes the situations in any of those circumstances or several others he's mentioned like Pakistan-India, where the Indians -- not just the government, the entire country -- were outraged that he tried to take credit for that. In Thailand-Cambodia, he simply threatened tariffs if they didn't sign a deal. And the real kicker in Azerbaijan-Armenia was the Russians allowing Azerbaijan to take control of Nagorno-Karabakh in the past year.]), (SentH[text=On Trump's retribution Bolton: Well, I think he's already come after me and several others in withdrawing the protection that we had for, from the Iranians for the attack on Qassem Soleimani.], SentH[text=And the real kicker in Azerbaijan-Armenia was the Russians allowing Azerbaijan to take control of Nagorno-Karabakh in the past year. So I think what Trump has done is make it clear that he wants a Nobel Peace Prize more than anything else. On Trump's retribution Bolton: Well, I think he's already come after me and several others in withdrawing the protection that we had for, from the Iranians for the attack on Qassem Soleimani. So I think, and I said in the new forward to the paperback edition of my book, I think it is a retribution presidency.]), (SentH[text="Next Friday will be important because it will be about testing Putin, how serious he is on bringing this terrible war to an end," Rutte told ABC News' "This Week" co-anchor Jonathan Karl.], SentH[text=NATO Secretary General Rutte says Trump-Putin summit is about 'testing Putin' Rutte also said Russia must acknowledge Ukraine's right to self-determination. NATO Secretary-General Mark Rutte said Friday's summit between President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin in Alaska will be an important test in ending the war in Ukraine. "Next Friday will be important because it will be about testing Putin, how serious he is on bringing this terrible war to an end," Rutte told ABC News' "This Week" co-anchor Jonathan Karl. "When it comes to full-scale negotiations, and let’s hope that Friday will be an important step in that process. ... It will be about territory.]), (SentH[text=And for NATO, to have no limitations on our presence on the eastern flank," Rutte added.], SentH[text=It will be about territory. It will be, of course, about security guarantees, but also about the absolute need to acknowledge that Ukraine decides on its own future, that Ukraine has to be a sovereign nation, deciding on its own geopolitical future -- of course having no limitations to its own military troop levels. And for NATO, to have no limitations on our presence on the eastern flank," Rutte added. "The president wants to end this. He wants to end the terrible loss of life," Rutte said.]), (SentH[text=Bolton added, "What Putin gets more than anything else is an opportunity, one on one, to try and get his magic working again with Trump, applying that KGB training.], SentH[text="I think Trump has made some mistakes already, number one in holding this meeting on American soil, legitimizing a pariah leader of the rogue state. Second, he's allowed Putin to get first-mover advantage by putting his peace plan on the table first," Bolton said. Bolton added, "What Putin gets more than anything else is an opportunity, one on one, to try and get his magic working again with Trump, applying that KGB training. Whether intentionally or unintentionally, he pushed Trump further than Trump wanted to be pushed. What Putin wants to get back, he's not so worried about the sanctions, he wants the relationship back with Trump.]), (SentH[text=Here are more highlights from Rutte's interview: On whether there are risks of rewarding Russia with summit Karl: My next guest, Trump's former national security adviser John Bolton, says that this meeting comes in a very dangerous point for Ukraine, and he fears that negotiations are sliding in Russia's direction.], SentH[text=Whether intentionally or unintentionally, he pushed Trump further than Trump wanted to be pushed. What Putin wants to get back, he's not so worried about the sanctions, he wants the relationship back with Trump. Here are more highlights from Rutte's interview: On whether there are risks of rewarding Russia with summit Karl: My next guest, Trump's former national security adviser John Bolton, says that this meeting comes in a very dangerous point for Ukraine, and he fears that negotiations are sliding in Russia's direction. Is there a risk that something is agreed to here that rewards Russia for its invasion of Ukraine? No, I don't think the risk is there.]), (SentH[text=On Trump's strategy on Ukraine Bolton: You know, ultimately, I don't think you negotiate under the circumstances that are being presented to them.], SentH[text=And then you could be back closer to where we were in February during the famous debacle in the Oval Office with Zelenskyy. So it's not inevitable, but I think this is a very risky meeting upcoming from the perspective not just of Ukraine, but the Western alliance. On Trump's strategy on Ukraine Bolton: You know, ultimately, I don't think you negotiate under the circumstances that are being presented to them. And I think we've gone through 3 1/2 years here where neither the United States nor NATO have had an effective strategy for Ukraine to win. We've spent a lot of time making sure Russia doesn't lose.]), (SentH[text=And this has had a huge impact potentially on the Indian economy, and this is forcing them to be much more clear with Moscow on what they expect Putin to do when it comes to this war in Ukraine.], SentH[text=We have seen President Trump putting incredible pressure on Russia. What happened last week, the extra 25% tariffs on India, because we know that India is one of the biggest buyers of oil from and, and other material from Russia. And this has had a huge impact potentially on the Indian economy, and this is forcing them to be much more clear with Moscow on what they expect Putin to do when it comes to this war in Ukraine. But also the fact that he opened the floodgates again when it comes to lethal weapons being delivered into Ukraine paid by the Europeans but delivered by the Americans. So this is all clear evidence that President Trump is absolutely adamant to bring this war to an end but also to keep maximum pressure on Putin.]), (SentH[text=So this is all clear evidence that President Trump is absolutely adamant to bring this war to an end but also to keep maximum pressure on Putin.], SentH[text=And this has had a huge impact potentially on the Indian economy, and this is forcing them to be much more clear with Moscow on what they expect Putin to do when it comes to this war in Ukraine. But also the fact that he opened the floodgates again when it comes to lethal weapons being delivered into Ukraine paid by the Europeans but delivered by the Americans. So this is all clear evidence that President Trump is absolutely adamant to bring this war to an end but also to keep maximum pressure on Putin. Here are more highlights from Bolton's interview: On Trump and Putin's relationship Bolton: I think it's gone up and down, and certainly it's been in a down period. That's what Putin wants to try and correct.]), (SentH[text=Texas Democrats fled the state to oppose GOP redistricting.], SentH[text=Texas Democrats fled the state to oppose GOP redistricting. Why this one stayed behind. In 2003, Texas Rep. Richard Peña Raymond battled a Republican redistricting plan all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court.]), (SentH[text=To block the move, Democrats have fled to Illinois and other states, preventing the legislature from having enough lawmakers present to conduct business.], SentH[text=Republicans in Texas want to push through a rare mid-decade plan to redraw congressional district maps. The push would turn five districts into more Republican-friendly seats, giving the GOP an edge in next year's midterm elections. To block the move, Democrats have fled to Illinois and other states, preventing the legislature from having enough lawmakers present to conduct business. But a small number of Democrats have stayed behind to fight against the plan in Austin. AUSTIN – State Rep. Richard Peña Raymond, a South Texas Democrat, has spent the past week prowling near-empty halls in the Texas state Capitol, talking to any Republican lawmaker who would listen and trying to avert a U.S. Supreme Court showdown.]), (SentH[text=On the nearby House floor, Republican lawmakers maneuvered to try to launch a rare mid-decade redistricting effort.], SentH[text=But a small number of Democrats have stayed behind to fight against the plan in Austin. AUSTIN – State Rep. Richard Peña Raymond, a South Texas Democrat, has spent the past week prowling near-empty halls in the Texas state Capitol, talking to any Republican lawmaker who would listen and trying to avert a U.S. Supreme Court showdown. On the nearby House floor, Republican lawmakers maneuvered to try to launch a rare mid-decade redistricting effort. They’ve drawn up a new map of U.S. House districts that could give the GOP five more seats and help the party maintain control of the narrowly divided chamber. Most of Raymond’s Democratic colleagues left Texas in an attempt to bust the quorums needed for the legislature to pass the measure.]), (SentH[text=In 2003, when Texas Republican lawmakers again tried to redraw districts outside the norms of the once-a-decade process that follows each new Census, Raymond was on the redistricting committee and became an ardent voice of the opposition.], SentH[text=But he stayed behind, trying to cajole, convince, pressure, or plead his way out of the crisis. For Raymond, it’s déjà vu all over again. In 2003, when Texas Republican lawmakers again tried to redraw districts outside the norms of the once-a-decade process that follows each new Census, Raymond was on the redistricting committee and became an ardent voice of the opposition. When the measure passed, he was named as a plaintiff in a lawsuit that ultimately ended in front of the U.S. Supreme Court. This time, he said, the stakes are even higher.]), (SentH[text=We went through a lot,” Raymond, 64, told USA TODAY from his first-floor office at the Capitol.], SentH[text=When the measure passed, he was named as a plaintiff in a lawsuit that ultimately ended in front of the U.S. Supreme Court. This time, he said, the stakes are even higher. We went through a lot,” Raymond, 64, told USA TODAY from his first-floor office at the Capitol. “I could see that that was history-making, and what's going on right now will be history-making.” Midterm battle prompts Texas showdown]), (SentH[text=There’s a saying, he said, that’s popular in the Spanish-speaking border city where he’s from: Hablando se entiende, or “Speaking to each other, you’re able to understand each other.”], SentH[text=‘Try to talk to everybody’ On Aug. 8, Raymond walked the short distance from his first-floor office to the second-floor House chamber. He wound his way around desks, chatting with fellow lawmakers, both Democrat and Republican, patting others on the back, joking with others. There’s a saying, he said, that’s popular in the Spanish-speaking border city where he’s from: Hablando se entiende, or “Speaking to each other, you’re able to understand each other.” “I have always tried my whole career to try to talk to everybody, get to know everybody, all 149 other members,” he said. Raymond, a state lawmaker since 2001, is one of the more tenured Democrats in the legislature.]), (SentH[text=“Just really putting them through the ringer to build the court record,” he remembered.], SentH[text=During committee hearings, he was at times the lone Democrat, objecting to Republican motions and grilling witnesses about the legality and fairness of gerrymandering maps for partisan gain. His goal was to get his comments and questions – and their replies – on the official record. “Just really putting them through the ringer to build the court record,” he remembered. “I was very, very involved in it, from the beginning to the end.” Lawmakers ultimately approved the new maps.]), (SentH[text=A 5-4 decision upheld the Texas redistricting plan but ruled part of it violated the Voting Rights Act by diluting the voting power of Latino voters.], SentH[text=Lawmakers ultimately approved the new maps. But lawsuits were filed and the case wound up in the U.S. Supreme Court. A 5-4 decision upheld the Texas redistricting plan but ruled part of it violated the Voting Rights Act by diluting the voting power of Latino voters. A proposal to split Laredo, Raymond’s hometown, in half was removed. “It was a 50-50 victory, but a victory nonetheless,” he said.]), (SentH[text=The border’s shifting allegiances make it politically risky for representatives of those districts to align too closely with national Democratic figures, such as Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker, who is essentially harboring the Texas Democrats, said Mark Jones, a Rice University political scientist.], SentH[text=Last year, Trump managed a near sweep of Texas border counties, traditionally a Democratic stronghold, winning 14 of the 18 counties on or near the border, including Webb County, which includes Laredo. Trump’s wins along the border were the biggest for a presidential candidate in three decades, outpacing those by native Texan George W. Bush when he won the governorship in 2004. The border’s shifting allegiances make it politically risky for representatives of those districts to align too closely with national Democratic figures, such as Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker, who is essentially harboring the Texas Democrats, said Mark Jones, a Rice University political scientist. It’s no coincidence, Jones said, that five of the six Democrats who stayed behind last week were from border districts in South Texas. Raymond, who is up for reelection next year, also likely prefers to keep his distance, he said.]), (SentH[text=If Texas Republicans succeed in adding five GOP seats to the U.S. House, the Trump-friendly chamber could allow the president to continue one of the most aggressive and disruptive agendas in modern presidential history.], SentH[text=The current showdown began when President Donald Trump and White House officials urged Texas Republican leaders to redraw voting maps to add five new Republican-friendly seats to the U.S. House of Representatives. State Democrats traveled to Illinois – some even to New York and Massachusetts – to prevent Republicans from reaching the two-thirds quorum in the 150-member legislature needed to conduct business. If Texas Republicans succeed in adding five GOP seats to the U.S. House, the Trump-friendly chamber could allow the president to continue one of the most aggressive and disruptive agendas in modern presidential history. A Democratic majority in January 2027 opens the door to Congressional investigations, legislative paralysis − even a third impeachment. Gov. Greg Abbott has threatened to arrest the absent lawmakers and the Justice Department of Justice has said it will also try to track down the AWOL representatives.]), (SentH[text=When it gets to feel overwhelming, he said, he tries to remind himself that other members equally love their country and state – and are trying to make it better.], SentH[text=Raymond acknowledged he’s faced with a herculean task – not unlike Sisyphus rolling the boulder up the hill at Tartarus in Greek mythology. His deepest fear, he said, is that the issue will again end up before the Supreme Court – this time with a court much more malleable to the GOP agenda. When it gets to feel overwhelming, he said, he tries to remind himself that other members equally love their country and state – and are trying to make it better. “I recognize that we won't always agree on how we get there, but I don't ever doubt that,” Raymond said. “I always start from that common place.”]), (SentH[text=The session on Aug. 8 was brief: Eight minutes gavel to gavel.], SentH[text=“I recognize that we won't always agree on how we get there, but I don't ever doubt that,” Raymond said. “I always start from that common place.” The session on Aug. 8 was brief: Eight minutes gavel to gavel. House Speaker Dustin Burrows, a Republican, recognized there still wasn’t a quorum, chastised the missing members and adjourned until Aug. 11. Moments after Burrows gaveled the meeting to a close, Raymond began talking to other lawmakers.]), (SentH[text=And on Aug. 8, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton asked the state Supreme Court to oust 13 Democratic lawmakers from office over their absence from the Capitol, arguing they abandoned their seats when they fled the state.], SentH[text=A Democratic majority in January 2027 opens the door to Congressional investigations, legislative paralysis − even a third impeachment. Gov. Greg Abbott has threatened to arrest the absent lawmakers and the Justice Department of Justice has said it will also try to track down the AWOL representatives. And on Aug. 8, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton asked the state Supreme Court to oust 13 Democratic lawmakers from office over their absence from the Capitol, arguing they abandoned their seats when they fled the state. The GOP's Texas power play has set off a redistricting arms race as blue state leaders move to create more Democratic-leaning House seats to counter Texas, and lawmakers in other red states, including Indiana and Missouri, consider joining the fray. Vice President JD Vance met with Indiana lawmakers on Aug. 7, reportedly to urge them to redraw maps and Florida Republican leaders have said they, too, will form a committee to begin redrawing districts.]), (SentH[text=Vice President JD Vance met with Indiana lawmakers on Aug. 7, reportedly to urge them to redraw maps and Florida Republican leaders have said they, too, will form a committee to begin redrawing districts.], SentH[text=And on Aug. 8, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton asked the state Supreme Court to oust 13 Democratic lawmakers from office over their absence from the Capitol, arguing they abandoned their seats when they fled the state. The GOP's Texas power play has set off a redistricting arms race as blue state leaders move to create more Democratic-leaning House seats to counter Texas, and lawmakers in other red states, including Indiana and Missouri, consider joining the fray. Vice President JD Vance met with Indiana lawmakers on Aug. 7, reportedly to urge them to redraw maps and Florida Republican leaders have said they, too, will form a committee to begin redrawing districts. In 2003, Texas Republicans also tried to redraw maps three years after Census data was released, prompting state Democrats to retreat to a Holiday Inn in Oklahoma, just over the state line from Texas and out of reach of troopers who could force them to return. Raymond fought the bill in committee, then joined his colleagues in Oklahoma.])]