FBI deputy director Dan Bongino took a day off from work Friday after clashing at the White House with Attorney General Pam Bondi over their handling of the Jeffrey Epstein files, four sources familiar with the conflict told Axios.

Why it matters: The dispute erupted Wednesday amid the fallout of the administration walking back its claims about Epstein by determining the convicted sex offender didn't have a celebrity "client list," and that he wasn't murdered in his New York City prison cell in 2019.

Bongino didn't come to work Friday, leading some insiders to believe he had quit. But administration officials say he's still on the job, even as the internal tension over the Epstein case continues.
A source close to Bongino, though, said "he ain't coming back."
Zoom in: At the center of the argument: a surveillance video from outside Epstein's cell that the administration released, saying it was proof no one had entered the room before he killed himself.

The 10-hour video had what has widely been called a "missing minute," fueling conspiracy theories in MAGA's online world about a cover-up involving Epstein's death.
The "missing minute," authorities say, stemmed from an old surveillance recording system that goes down each day at midnight to reset and record anew. It takes a minute for that process to occur, which effectively means that 60 seconds of every day aren't recorded.
Bongino — who had pushed Epstein conspiracy theories as a MAGA-friendly podcast host before President Trump appointed him to help lead the FBI — had found the video and touted it publicly and privately as proof that Epstein hadn't been murdered.
That conclusion — shared by FBI Director Kash Patel, another conspiracy theorist-turned-insider — angered many in Trump's MAGA base, criticism that increased after Axios first reported the release of the video and a related memo.

After the video's "missing minute" was discovered, Bongino was blamed internally for the oversight, according to three sources.
Two sources familiar with Bongino's position say he was increasingly displeased with Bondi's handling of the Epstein case because she had publicly overpromised and underdelivered disclosures about an Epstein "client list" that apparently never existed.
The intrigue: MAGA influencer Laura Loomer, a Bondi critic, first reported Friday on X that Bongino left work and that he and Patel were "furious" with the way Bondi had handled the case.

Some Trump advisers have criticized Bondi, but Trump "loves Pam and thinks she's great," a senior White House official said.
Those witnessing the Wednesday clash between Bondi and Bongino in the White House were Patel, White House Chief of Staff Susie Wiles and Deputy Chief of Staff Taylor Budowich.
Inside the room: During the meeting, Bongino was confronted about a NewsNation article that said he and Patel wanted more information released about Epstein earlier, but were held back. Bongino denied leaking that idea.

"Pam said her piece. Dan said his piece. It didn't end on friendly terms," said one person briefed on the heated discussion. Bongino left angry, the source said.
"The fact is, Dan was for releasing the information with the video and had no problem until he got heat online," a senior administration official told Axios.
"Bongino found the video with the missing minute. He vouched for it after a 'thorough review,' he said, and he thought this would end the matter. When that didn't work, he lost his mind and ran out of D.C."
Said a pro-Bongino source: "Dan is not the bad guy here. He shouldn't take the fall."
The big picture: The blowup involving Trump's senior law enforcement officials showed just how much the administration has been rocked by its handling of the Epstein case.

At different times, Bondi, Bongino and Patel each have complained to others that they were being unfairly blamed for the Epstein flap and hung out to dry.
Zoom out: Bongino, a former Secret Service agent, joined the administration after gaining prominence as a conservative podcaster with regular appearances on Fox News.

What they're saying: Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche weighed in Friday morning on X, saying that he "worked closely with Patel and Bongino on the joint FBI and DOJ memo regarding the Epstein Files. All of us signed off on the contents of the memo and the conclusions stated in the memo."

"The suggestion by anyone that there was any daylight between the FBI and DOJ leadership on this memo's composition and release is patently false."
Go deeper: Patel and Bongino's choppy transition from roasting the FBI to running it

What to know about Dan Bongino, new FBI deputy director